DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
b) Creatgrgert;e; for the following key: [WBUT 2012]
Key:8,5,1,7,3,12, 9, 6.
Answer: .
A B -tree ofordg‘r m is a m-way search tree with the following characteristics.
i) the tree is either empty or is of height greater than or equal to 1, ‘
ii) the root node index block has at least 2 children,
iii) all data block nodes (leaf nodes) must be at the same level.,
iv) all index block nodes, other than the root node and the data block nodes, have at
least [m/2] children,
' v) all index blocks have the same capacity. All data blocks have also the same
capacity, which may differ from the capacity of index blocks.
Inserting a New Node into a B'-tree
In order to insert a new node, we proceed as follows,
1. Locate the appropriate data block
2. If there is room in the data block, the new record will be inserted in sequence by
moving subsequent records if necessary,
3. Splitting a block: If there is no room, a new data block has to be acquired first.
- Some of the records from the old block are moved into the newly acquired block so
that after insertion of the new record the old and the new data block contain nearly
an equal number of records.
A new entry in the new data block is inserted into the appropriate index block. If the
index block is already full then a new index block is obtained and some of the entries
from the old index block are to be moved to the new index block so that they contain
nearly an equal number of entries. Similarly, the index block which is at a level
immediately above this index block is updated and so on.
5. Construct a B+ tree for the following set of key values- (3,4,6,8,12,17,19,23,29,31)
assume that the tree is initially empty, values are added in ascending order and the
number of pointer in one node is 3. Also perform the following operations of B+
| tree: (i) insert 10 (ii) insert 11 (iii) delete 29. [WBUT 2015]
- Answer:
‘ The B+ tree is generated in ascending order. A node (which is not a root) is never
, allowed to have fewer than [n/2] values/pointers.
[T |
|
| I O e 1t e I ST
', DBMSCS-97
