DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Answer:
Three Schema Architecture of DBMS
! Mapping supplied by.
CONCEPTUAL LEVEL DBMS
Designer View
INTERNAL LEVEL
DBMS View
The three levels of the architecture
" T!:e internal level is t.he one closest to physical storage — i.e., it is the one concerned
with the way the data is physically stored. '
e The copceptual level is a "level of indirection” between the other two. (Gives
abstraction on to the upper level of the lower level)
 The external level is the one closest to the users i.e., it is the one concerned with the
way the data is viewed by individual users. |
If the external level is concerned with individual user views, then the conceptual level is
concerned with a community user view. In other words, there will be many distinct
external views, each consisting of a more or less abstract representation of some portion
of the total database, and there will be precisely one conceptual view, consisting of a
similarly abstract representation of the database in its entirely. There will be precisely one
internal view, representing the total database as physically stored. ‘
2. What are the main functions of a database manager? List five major functions of
Data Base Administrator. [WBUT 2006]
OR,
Explain the roles of a database administrator (DBA). [WBUT 20089]
OR,
Discuss the role of DBA. | [WBUT 2017]
OR,
Explain the role of database administrator? [WBUT 2018]
Answer: . .
The functions of the DBA include the following: : - 4
(1) Schema definition: The DBA creates the original database schema by writing set of
definitions that is translated by the DDL compiler to a set of tables that is stored
~ Ppermanently in the data dictionary. ik }
(2) Storage structure and access-method definition: The DBA creates appropriate
storage structures and access methods by writing a set of definitions, which is translated
by the data-storage and data-definition-language compiler. s
(3) Schema and physical-organization modification: Programmers accomplis Yo
relatively rare modifications either to the database schema or to the description thzr gl
physical storage organization by writing a set of deﬁmtlons which is used by ei
DBMSCS-3
