» 3. Explain the difference between weak entity set and strong entlgvsaeth_ 2006, 2010]
Answer: -
1) An entity set, which has a primary key, is 1) An entity set is called a weak_ entity set if its
termed as strong entity set. existence depends on other entities i.c., strong
entities. ;
‘ to form a primary key. attributes to form a primary key. .
' 3) A strong entity set is indicated in E-R|3) A weak entity set is indicated in E-R
diagram by a singly outlined rectangle. diagrams by a doubly outlined rectangle.
4) The primary key of strong entity set s formed|4) The primary key of weak entity set is formed
by the primary key of the strong entity set. by the primary key of the strong entity set plus
' its discriminator.
4. a) What is metadata? [WBUT 2007, 2010, 2017]
b) What do you mean by data dictionary? Why is the data dictionary required In
RDBMS? [WBUT 2007]
OR,
What is Data dictionary? [WBUT 2015, 2017, 2019]
Answer: :
a) Metadata is defined as data providing information about one or more other pieces of
data, such as:
= Means of creation of the data
= Purpose of the data
« Time and date of creation
= Creator or author of data
= Placement on a computer network where the data was created
=  Standards used
For example, a digital image may include metadata that describes how large the picture
is, the color depth, the image resolution, when the image was created, and other data. A
text document's metadata may contain information about how long the document is, who
the authorlls, when the document was written, and a short summary of the document.
Metadata ls-data. As suc].1, metadata can be stored and managed in a database, often
calle-d a rgglstry or repository. However, it is impossible to identify metadata just by
Jooking at it because a user would not know when data is metadata or just data. ‘ J
b) Data Dictionary
A data dictionary or metadata repository is a "centralized repository of informati
about data such as meaning, relationships to other data, origin, usage and form N
A data dictionary is organized into five sections: i i
¢ Data elements
e Data Flows
o Data Stores
* Processes
» External Entities.
DBMSCS-12
1
