POPULAR PUBLICATIONS
base models: e ‘fferent database models hz
ll;)e:))eantc:iling on data abstract levels and ac.:tu.al appllcauons,hdlflf;:gstec:jz :badbl’ot v databc:;:

. their advantages and disadvantages. Tt 18 t-he o y te to state that one database
models, conceptual ones and logical ones. It is not aPPrf’Pr ldc(i"ls are generally used for
model is always better than the others. Conceptual data mo fe (Hrmcvcr paite.
engineering information modeling at a high Ieve! of abStrst:Ol]. dp\] s a’l uyglcv:l b
information systems are constructed based on logfcal databaslcwnlu()j | t,'.b.a;c e
data manipulation, that is, a low level of abslract;on, the lOi%l(.d (‘j“lls érc ot‘tén e
for engineering information modeling. H'erc, loglcz%l datat’)as‘e mg_‘lu‘ o s
through mapping conceptual data models into logwa: c-iata’bdsc mode z’ e
called conceptual design of databases. The relauQnshlPS amo{ng C‘;’”V:lfm‘ P
logical database models and engineering information systcmds);ireB s 1;6 differne g %
In this figure, Logical DB Model (4) and Logical DB M(/dré {) )'e . s i
systems. That means that they may have different loglca! g aijatab'lﬁc — say

: database and object-oriented database or they may l?e d1fferent~ ce 1 IE el
Oracle™ and DB2, although they have the same logical database mo:, ea gt
- from the figure that a developed conceptual data model can bel crinifase =
logical database models. Besides, it can also bg seen that-a loglca “?; p Jatabase reverse
mapped into a conceptual data model. This f:onversmn-ls ca evcﬁc e c-an -
engineering. It is clear that it is possible that dlfﬂ‘arent'loglcal database m
converted one another through database reverse engineering.
-——'l i DR 3
A g . : : Conceptual
e . é Logical DB Model (B)
ek -
Fig: Relationships among conceptual data model, logical
database model and engineering information systems
¢) Inner join: ke
' {“}ﬂ inner join of 1 and 2 gives the result of | intersect 2. ' |
i.e. the inner part of a Venn diagram intersection. v | ':
i
1 ) i
DBMSCS-36 j
