V EESET CLC AR T R T e aSege s
DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
.d phase starts. In this phase a t i
;zlee ;I;:;S ; g’c acqgircd L p ransaction cannot demand for any lock but only
Two phase locking has two P_haSCS_, one is growing; where all locks are being acquired by
(ransaction and §econd one is shrinking, where locks held by the transaction are being
released. To claim an exc1u§|ve (write) lock, a transaction must first acquire a shared
‘ (read) lock and then upgrade it to exclusive lock.
Time stamp based protocols
The most com_monly used'concurrency protocol is time-stamp based protocol. This -
protocol uses glther system time or logical counter to be used as a time-stamp.
Every transaction has a time-stamp associated with it and the ordering is determined by
the age of the transaction. A transaction created at 0004 clock time would be older than
a1l other transaction, which come after it. For example, any transaction 'y' entering the
| system at 000.6 is two seconds younger and priority may be given to the older one.
| The major difference between 2PL and Time stamp is that in lock based protocols
manage the order between conflicting pairs among transaction at the time of execution
whereas time-stamp based protocols start working as soon as transaction is created.
Besides, every data item is given the latest read and write-timestamp. This lets the system
know, when last read was and write operation made on the data item.
6. What do you mean by transaction? Explain the transaction states. [WBUT 2016]
Answer:
1 Part: Refer to Question No. 8(a) of Long Answer Type Questions.
2" part: Refer to Question No. 13(c) of Long Answer Type Questions.
7. Explain log based recovery and checkpoints. [WBUT 2016]
Answer:
Log based recovery: In this method, log of each transaction is maintained in some stable
storage, so that in case of any failure, it can be recovered from there to recover the
database. But storing the logs should be done before applying the actual transaction on
the database.
Every log in this case will have informations like what transaction is being executed,
- which values have been modified to which value, and state of the transaction. All these -
i log _information will be stored in the order of execution.
' Checkpoints: Checkpoint acts like a bookmark. During the execution of transaction,
i such checkpoints are marked and transaction 1s executed. The log files will be created as
' usual with the steps of transactions. When it reaches the checkpoint, the transaction will
be updated into database and all the logs (il that point will be removed from file. Log
files then are updated with new steps of transaction till next checkpoint and so on. Here
care should be taken to create a checkpoint because, if any checkpoints are created before
any transaction is complete fully, and data is upd‘ated to database, it will not meet _the
purpose of the log file and checkpoint. If checkpoints are c_reat.ed when each transaction
is complete or where the database is at consistent state, then it will be useful.
DBMSCS-107
