POPULAR PUBLICATIONS
Recovery and Concurrency:
" o COMMIT
. ROLLBACK
Security:
‘ GRANT
B REVOKE
Integrity Constraints: .

. : cify that
Integrity constraints are enforced by the system. For exa!'np.lcv:, ?F‘lficandsii ag - ;ﬂ
attribute of a relation will not accept null values. Detail syntaxes an p €

- discussed later. _
6. Indicate the advantage of DBMS over conventional file system. [WBUT 2013]
Answer: ; .
* Reduced data redundancy and Reduced updating errors and increased
consistency
* Greater data integrity and independence from applications programs
* Improved data access to users through use of host and query languages
® Improved data security
7. Could a modern university be supported if a file processing system was used to
Manage enterprise information? List four major difficulties that are likely to arise if
no database system was available to the university. Discuss the difficulties.
[WBUT 2014)
Answer:
A modern university have to manage its large enterprise information because it can have
many departments, each with its own information system and data files. Three potential
problems exist in a file processing environment. The first problem is data redundancy,
which means that data common to two or more information Systems is stored in several
places. Data redundancy requires more Storage space and maintaining and updating data
in severa.l loqations IS expensive, S.econd, data integrity problems can occur if updates are
not apphed In every file, Changing the data in only one of the Systems will cause
Inconsistent data} and result in incorrect ir}formation in the second System. The third
problem is th? .rlgld data structure of a typical file processing environment. Businesses
;"USt takei Qef:ns;)on§ based On company-wide data and managers often require information
rom mu tiple u§11;ess units and dgpartments. In a file processing environment, that
ir:llegs'retn;vmr%hlp (()jrmabtlon from independent, file-based Systems, which is slow and
da:a li(t:len . O‘:j ; ‘St atad asel System needs less storage. Theoretically, aj) occurrences of
‘ Systeme?:vre“le;per: asngrfia t:l;l y 0(;166_, therebg eliminating the Storage of redundant data.
ase designers often yse ¢ izati inimi
redundancy, | ata normalization to minimize data
' DBMS(CS-¢ |
M
