p—
' \ DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
\ The format of the data dictionary contains:
o Data Type: Data Element/Data Flow/Data Store
e Data Name: Name of the Data Elements, Data Flow/Data Store.
o Data Aliases: Alternate names used for the convenience of multiple users.
e Data Description: A short description of data.
e Data characteristics: Frequency of the use. Data length, Range of data values etc.
 Data Composition: Various data elements contained in a data store of data flow.
5. Give an example of derived attribute. [WBUT 2009, 2010]
Answer:
Derived Attribute
The attribute values which are not a part of the entity but can be computed in association
with some other stored attributes.
-'\Denved attribute
For example the age of a person which can be computed by subtracting the dob from the
current date.
6. Explain candidate key with an example. [WBUT 2011]
Answer:
Refer to Question No. 2 of Short Answer Type Questions.
7. Define super key, candidate key and primary key. [WBUT 2012]
Answer:
Refer to Question No. 2 of Short Answer Type Questions.
8. What is cardinality ratio? [WBUT 2013, 2017]
Answer: : ; '
Cardinality: Cardinality is the specification of the number of occurrences of one object
that can be related to the number of occurrences of another object. \ o 1 .
For example, one object can relate to only one other object (1:1 relationship); one object
: can relate to many objects (1:N relationship); Some number of occurrences of an obj.ect
can relate to some other number of occurrences of another object (M:N .re.latlons.hlp).
Cardinality defines “the maximum number of objects that can participate in a
relationship”. HoWever, it does not provide an indication of wh_ethpr or no.t a particular
data object must participate in the relationship. To specify this information, the data
model adds modality to the object/ relationship pair.
9. What is disjointless constraint? [WBUT 2013]
Answer: ' . _
Disjoint Constraints: One or more sub collections of a given super collection may be
declared to be disjoint. It implies that no object may occur in more than one of these sub
DBMSCS-13
