POPULAR PUBLICATIONS
In this case we say that a physical image is a copy of another physical image, In the
R1 is a copy of R2. : g :
Egilresbsloi\"\/, Ly topthe figure of the reference architecture. It is described that the
ey ol P t the top levels of this architecture. These levels ar
relationships between the objects & e
iy dent: therefore, they do not depend on the data model of local DBMSs. At 5
site independent; eecesS;‘ry to map the physical images to the objects which are
lowe_r lle\tle(li, blt tl}slenlocal DBMSs. This mapping is called a local mapping schema ang
g:;nelr;l):ixsa:n th); type of local DBMS; therefore in a heterogeneous system we haye
different types of local mappings at different sites.
This architecture provides a very general concept.ual. framework for un.derstanding
distributed databases. The three most important objectives are the separation of data
fragmentation and allocation, the control of redundancy and the independence from local
DBMS:s.
1. Separating the concept of data fragmentation from the concept of data allocation. This
sepaiation allows to distinguish two different levels of distribution transparency, namely
fragmentation transparency and location transparency. Fragmentation transparencx 1s .the
highest degree of transparency and consists of the fact that the user or application
programmer works on global relations. Location transparency is a lower degree of
transparency and requires the user or application programmer to work on fragments
b instead of global relations; however, the fragment locations are unknown. The separation
between the concept of fragmentation and allocation is very convenient in distributed
database design, because the determination of relevant portions of the data is thus
distinguished from the problem of optimal allocation.
2. Explicit control of redundancy: The reference architecture provides explicit control of
redundancy at the fragment level. In the 2nd figure the two physical images R2 and R3 '
are overlapping; i.e., they contain common data. The definition of disjoint fragments as
building blocks of physical images allows us to refer explicitly to this overlapping part;
: the replicated fragment R2. As we shall see, the explicit control over redundancy is useful
| in several aspects of distributed database management.
3. Independence from local DBMSs: This feature is called local mapping transparency,
allows us to study several problems of distributed database management without having
to take into account the specific data models of local DBMSs. Clearly, in a homogeneous
system it is possible that the site-independent schema are defined using the same -data
model as the local DBMSs, thus reducing the complexity of this mapping.
Ano.the.r type of transparenc.y \jvhich is strictly related to location transparency is
replication transparency. Replication transparency implies that the user is unaware of the
replication of fragment_s. Clea.rly, replication transparency is implied by location
transparency; however In_certain cases it is possible that the user has no location
transparency but has replication transparency implies use of one particular copy and the
DBMSCS-142 J
