DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
_ 4. a) Distinguish between locking and timestamp protocols for concurrency
controls. Explain multi-version two-phase locking. [WBUT 2010]
b) Define three concurrency problems, dirty read, non-repeatable read, phantoms.
c) Consider the following two transactions: [WBUT 2010, 2011, 2013, 2019]
T, cread (A);
read (B);
ifA=0,thenB:B+1;
: write ( B)
i :read (B);
read (A);
fB=0,then A: A+1;
Write (A)
Add lock and unlock instructions to transactions T, and T,, so that they observe
the two-phase locking protocol. Can the execution of these transactions result in a
deadlock? [WBUT 2010] ,
Answer:
a) Locking data items to prevent multiple transactions from accessing the items
concurrently is the most common method used to ensure serializability. In this section,
we examine the basic idea behind the locking concepts and introduce two-phase locking
protocol. s
A lock is a variable associated with data items that describe the status of the item with
} respect to possible operations that can be applied to it. :
There are various types of locks are used in concurrency control like Binary Locks and
Shared/Exclusive Locks. In the locking protocols, the order between every pair of _
conflicting transactions is determined at execution time by the first lock that they both
request that involves incompatible modes.
. Another method for determining the serializability order is select an ordering among
transactions in advance. Timestamp — ordering scheme is the typical example of this
' method. ‘ i
A timestamps is a unique variable associated with a transaction. Timestamp of
transaction T is denoted by TS(T). This timestamp is assigned by the database system in
the order in which the transaction submitted to the system. If Ti has been assigned
timestamp TS(Ti) and a new transaction Tj enters the system then TS(Ti) < TS(T))
~ There are two simple ways for generating timestamp:
A 1. Use the current value of system clock as the timestamps
2. Use a l_ogical f:ounter that is incremented each time a value is assigned to a A
! transaction as timestamp. ‘
In lorder to use timestamp techniques, each data item Q is associtated with two timestamp
values: '
e read TS(Q). This is. the largest timestamp of any transaction that have
successfully read data item Q. ;
L e TS0, Ths is o o ransaton hat s tead Q sucossslly
Wikl e e O mp of any transaction that sucessfully
write_TS(Q) = TS(T) where T is the youngest transaction that has written Q successfully
DBMSCS-113
