POPULAR PUBLICATIONS ,
DDL compiler or the data-storage and data-definition-language compiler to generate
modifications to the appropriate internal system tables (for example, the data dictionary).
(4) Granting of authorization for data access: The granting of different types of
authorization allows the database administrator to regulate which parts of the database
various users eon access. The authorization information is kept in special system
structure that is consulted by the database system whenever access to the data is
attempted in the system.
(5) Integrity-constraint specification: The data values stored in the database must satisfy
' certain consistency constraints. Such a constraint must be specified explicitly by the
database administrator. The integrity constraints are kept in a special system structure
that is consulted by the database system whenever an update takes place in the system.
(6) Designing security and integrity constraint specification: The data values stored in
the database must satisfy certain consistency constraints. Such a constraint must be
specified explicitly by the database administrator. The integrity constraints are kept in a
special system structure that is consulted by the database system whenever an update .
takes place in the system.
(7) Routine Maintenance: Periodically backing up the data either onto some movgble
devices and/or to remote servers to prevent and protect data from loss due to various
reasons. Also ensures free disk space for regular operations. Monitoring jobs running on
: the database and ensuring that performance is not degraded by the method loosely called
performance tuning.
3. Write the difference between procedural and non-procedural DML. [WBUT 2006]
OR,
What is the difference between procedural and non-procedural DML?
[WBUT 2013, 2017]
Answer: _
DML language enable user to access or manipulate data as organized by appropriate data
model.
> Procedural DML or Low level: DML requires a user to specify what data are
needed and how to get those data.
» - Non-Procedural DML or High level: DML requires a user to specify what data
are needed without specifying how to get those data.
4. What is the difference between a database and a table? [(WBUT 2009, 2011]
Answer:
El);tat?ase is a Pool of data. Tables are the containers .of holding the data. As per relational
o retlicail;:ti (r)rrlla;?dg/emenifslysmr?, tables Iare organized following the rules of total
or partial participation. Implementation is done wi i
| Key and foreign key relations hip, th the help of primary
DBMSCS-4
