POPULAR PUBLICATIONS
Consider the following example transaction from before:
Read (Sno = x, Salary)
Salary = Salary * 1.1
Write (Sno = x, Salary) .
For the Read operation, the DBMS performs the following steps:
—  Find the address of the disk block containing the record with key value x.
—  Transfer this disk block into a database buffer in main memory.
— Copy the salary data from the database buffer into the variable Salary.
For the Write operation, the following steps occur:
—  Find the address of the disk block containing the record with key value x.
— Transfer this disk block into a database buffer in main memory.
— Copy the salary data from the variable Salary into the database buffer.
—  Write the database buffer back to disk.
The database buffers function as an intermediate storage location (or cache) to minimize
the cost of reading and writing data on disk. So, it is common to delay writing them to
disk until absolutely necessary. It is only once the buffers have been flushed to disk that
any update operations can be regarded as permanent.
The flushing of buffers can be triggered by special commands (e.g., transaction commit),
or automatically when the buffer becomes full. Explicit flushing of the buffers is called
force-writing. Failure may occur between writing to the buffers and flushing the buffers
to disk. In this case, the recovery manager must determine the status of the transaction
that performed the write at the time of failure. If the transaction that wrote prior to failure
had issued its commit, then the recovery manager must redo the transaction’s updates to
ensure.

5. What is the single most significant difference between two-phase locking and
l the time-stamping technique concurrency control? Explain briefly. [WBUT 2014]
_ OR,

Explain two-phase locking protocol. ‘ [WBUT 2016]

OR,

What_is the main difference between two-phase locking and the time stamping

technique concurrency control? Explain briefly. [WBUT 2019]

Answer: ' ’

Tw_'o Phase Locking - 2PL '

g:;ts 103(}:25 pr?tOCOI c_iivides transaction execution phase into three parts. In the first

, N rans.actlon starts [ ok acquisition phase

€xecuting, transaction look for Releasing phase

grant of locks. Second part is \

where the transaction acquires all / |

locks and no other lock s required.

Transaction keeps executing its , .

operation. As soon as the L Trend Time

transaction releases its first lock, Fig: Two Phase Locking
DBMSCS-106
i A
