V D e SR o e e
DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
in 7 Yy committing changes to all other
database. Why not? [WBUT 2014]
Answer: ]
it doesn't allow a given transaction to commit changes to files on an individual basis
hecause it must .makc sure that the system remains in a consistent state before and after a
gransaction. So 1t .ha.ts to make sure that the system as a whole is reliable before making
changes on an individual basis.
10. a) Explain the purpose of the checkpoint mechanism. How often should
' checkpoints be performed?
i b) How does ‘strict two-phase’ and ‘consecutive two-phase’ locking protocol differ.
| [WBUT 2015]
! Answer:
ﬁ a) Checkpointing is done with log-based recovery schemes to reduce the amount of
| searching that needs to be done after a crash. If there is no checkpointing, then the entire
‘ log must be searched after a crash, and all transactions “redone” from the log. If
checkpointing is used, then most of the log can be discarded. Since checkpoints are very
expensive, how often they should be taken depends upon how reliable the system is. The
more reliable the system, the less often a checkpoint should be taken.
b) According to the two-phase locking protocol a transaction handles its locks in two
distinct, consecutive phases during the transaction's execution:
e Expanding phase (aka Growing phase): locks are acquired and no locks are
released (the number of locks can only increase).
e Shrinking phase: locks are released and no locks are acquired.
The two phase locking (2PL) rule can be summarized as: never acquire a lock after a lock :
has been released. The serializability property is guaranteed for a schedule with
transactions that obey this rule. '
Typically, without explicit knowledge in a transaction on end of phase-1, it is safely
determined only when a transaction has completed processing and requested commit. In
this case all the locks can be released at once (phase-2).
To comply with the Strict two phase locking protocol a transaction needs to comply with
2PL, and release its write (exclusive) locks only after it has ended, i.e., being either
committed or aborted. On the other hand, read (shared) locks are released regularly
during phase 2. This protocol is not appropriate in B-trees because it causes Bottleneck
| (While B-trees always starts searching from the parent root).
| :); -Ca) W_hat are the various states of a transaction? Explain with a state diagram.
o lf)znsclzder the following schedule: T Y iyt
(B) v 2((A))’ r2 (B), w2 (B), r3 (B), r3 (C), r1 (A), w1 (A), w3 (B), ; ; ;
l )
cs) mz:tc.hedule Sonniizahing : del f schedule desired?
) Expy IS cascadeless schedule? Why is cascadeless O e
Plain log based recovery. G ]
DBMSCS-121
