DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
the Primary Key is the core of the entity integrity. If one defines a primary key fon: each
entity, they follow the entity integrity rule. Entity integrity §pec1ﬁes that the Primary
Keys on every instance of an entity must be kept, must be unique and n'1ust have \{alugs
other than NULL. Entity Integrity is the mechanism the system provides to maintain
primary keys. The primary key serves as a unique identifier for rows in the table.

The system enforces Entity Integrity by not allowing operations (INSERT, UPDATE) to
| produce an invalid primary key. Any operation that creates a duplicate primary key or
one containing nulls is rejected.
' Referential Integrity: It is a database management safeguard that ensures every foreign
‘ key matches a primary key. For example, customer numbers in a customer file are the
primary keys, and customer numbers in the order file are the foreign keys. If a customer
record is deleted, the order records must also be deleted; otherwise they are left without a
' primary reference. If the DBMS does not test for this, it must be programmed into the
applications.
Referential integrity in a relational database is consistency between coupled tables.
Referential integrity is usually enforced by the combination of a primary key(candidate
key) and a foreign key. For referential integrity to hold, any field in a table that is
declared a foreign key can contain only values from a parent table's primary key or a
candidate kev. ror instance, deleting a record that contains a value referred to by a
foreign key in another table would break referential integrity. The RDBMS enforces
' referential integrity, normally either by deleting the foreign key rows as well to maintain
integrity, or by returning an error and not performing the delete. Which method is used
would be defined by the definition of the referential integrity constraint.
Example: An employee database stores the department in which each employee works.
The field "DepartmentNumber" in the Employee table is declared a foreign key, and it
refers to the field "Index" in the Department table which is declared a primary key.
Referential integrity would be broken by deleting a department from the Department
table if employees listed in the Employee table are listed as working for that department,
unless those employees are moved to a different department at the same time.
3. Why are entity integrity and referential integrity important in a database?
[WBUT 2009, 2011]
| Answer:
; Refer io Question No. 2(1° Part) of Short Answer Type Questions.
t 4. consider the following “sailors” and “reserves” relations: [WBUT 2012, 2014]
i R (sid, bid, day) |
S (sid, sname, rating, age)
Formulate the following queries using relational algebra”
a) Find names of sailors who have reserved boat # XXX.
b) Find names and ages of sailors who have reserved a boat
l . DBMSCS-27
