i
DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
7. Object identity must be supported.
3. Encapsulation must be supported.
4. Types or Classes must be supported.
5. Types or Classes must be able to inherit from their ancestors.
6. Dynamic binding must be supported. ‘
7. The DML must be computationally complete. ?
L 8 The set of data types must be extensible.
{ 9. Data persistence must be provided.
, 10. The DBMS must be capable of managing very large databases.
[ 1. The DBMS must support concurrent users.
12. DBMS must be able to recover from hardware/software failures.
[3. DBMS must provide a simple way of querying data.
2" part:
List of advantages and disadvantages of using an OODBMS over an RDBMS with an '
object oriented programming language
|. Composite Objects and Relationships: An OODBMS can outperform an
RDBMS by ten to a thousand times depending on the complexity of the data
being handled.
2. Class Hierarchy: Data in RDMS has hierarchical characteristics but it is easier
to describe in an OODBMS. For example; an employee can be a manager or not
i1 an RDBMS can be described by a type identifier or creating a separate table
using foreign keys between Managers and Employees. In an OODBMS, the
Employee class is simply a parent class of the Manager class.
| 3. Necessity of a Query Language: A SQL is not necessary for accessing data :
from an OODBMS unlike an RDBMS It can be translucently accessed through
objects. However, queries can be used in OODBMS.
4. Impedance mismatch is completely avoided when using an OODBMS. Like; a
typical application that uses an object oriented programming language and an
~ RDBMS, a significant amount of time is usually spent mapping tables to objects
and back and many a times atomic type data ina RDBMS do not map cleanly.
5. No Primary Keys: in a RDBMS for unique identification any two tuples can not
, have the same primary key values In an OODBMS, the unique identification of
' objects is done in abstraction via OIDs. Thus there is no limitation on the values
i that can be stored in an object. ‘
6. One Data Model: A data model typically model entities and their relationships
| in RDBMS with E-R diagram. In OODBMS there is no disconnecting between
the database model and the application model because the entities are just other
. objects in the system. An entire application can thus be comprehensively
modelled in one UML diagram.
| Disadvantages ‘
l. Schema Changes: In an RDBMS modifying the database schema is simple.
‘ While in an OODBMS modifying the schema means those changes have to be
| DBMSCS-139 .
