r B U T T—
‘ DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
_ 12. @) :\!)hat is deadlock? What are necessary and sufficient condition for
ock’
g)e\af\('jl:at are the necessary measurements for deadlock avoidance?
) Let T,, T, and T; be transactions that operate on the same data items A, B and C.
Let r(4) mean that Ti read 4, W (4) means that T, writes A and so on for T, and
T,. Consider the following schedule: .
S, ;r:(C).r:(B)-W:(B)-"_x(B)J‘g(C)J‘,(A)W, :WJ(B)'WJ(C)’rz(A)s’](B)awl(B)a”G(A) is the
schedule serializable? [WBUT 2018]
Answer: '
a) 1* Part: Refer to Question No. 9 of Short Answer T ype Questions.
|
2 Part:
| Four Necessary and Sufficient Conditions for Deadlock
1. Mutual exclusion
The resources involved must be unshareable: otherwise, the processes would not be
prevented from using the resource when necessary. '
2. Hold and wait or partial allocation
The processes must hold the resources they have already been allocated while waiting for
other (requested) resources. If the process had to release its resources when a new
resource or resources were requested, deadlock could not occur because the process
would not prevent others from using resources that it controlled.
3. No pre-emption .
The processes must not have resources taken away while that resource is being used. ‘
Otherwise, deadlock could not occur since the operating system could simply take ‘
enough resources from running processes to enable any process to finish. ' j
4. Resource waiting or circular wait ‘
A circular chain of processes, with each process holding resources which are currently ‘
being requested by the next process in the chain, cannot exist. If it does, the cycle 5
theorem (which states that "a cycle in the resource graph is necessary for deadlock to
;‘ occur”) indicated that deadlock could occur. f
[ i
i b) Deadlock Avoidance i
* ltrequires that each process declare the maximum number of resources of each type J
that it will need.
* The deadlock-avoidance algorithm dynamically checks the resource-allocation state
\ 10 ensure the system can never be in a circular-wait condition.
‘ When 4 process requests a resource, the system must make sure that the allocation
TVOUld leave the system in a safe state.
- [A state is safe if the system can allocate all resources requested by all processes ‘
(up to their stated maximums ) without entering a deadlock state. ‘
DBMSCS-123 '
