1
POPULAR PUBLICATIONS -
Therefore in traditional ﬁledp;o;:essli]ng evcl:.ry tlese:r will be defining their own constraints
- s needed for the applications.
?:cz;r;iir:?;t;ﬁffd single repositorp;pof data is maiptqined that is defined once and
then accessed by many users. The fundamental characteristic Qf databasle ap[;rofz_lch Is that
the database system not only contains data's byt it contains complete de mmgm_ or
description of the database structure and cgnstramts. These dt:ﬁmtlonfj e;_re.s.tore in a
system catalog, which contains the information al?out the structure and efinitions of the
Jatabase. The information stored in the catalog is called the metadata, it describes the
primary database. Hence this approach will work on any type of dzfltabase for examp.le,
insurance database, Airlines, banking database, Finance details, and l'?,ntgrpns.e
information database. But in traditional file processing system the application is
developed for a specific purpose and they will access specific database. only.
The other main characteristic of the database is that it will allow multiple users to' access
the database at the same time and sharing of data is possible. The database must include
concurrency control software to ensure that several users trying to update the same data at
the same time, it should maintain in a controlled manner. In file system approacl} many -
programmers will be creating files over a long period and various files have different
format, in various application languages.
Therefore there is possibility of information getting duplicated, this redundancy is storing
" same data multiple times leads to higher costs and wastage of space. This may result in
data inconsistency in the application, this is because update is done to some of the files
only and not all the files. Moreover in database approach multiple views can be created
which will not occupy any space. :
A multi-user database whose users have variety of applications must provide facilities for
defining multiple views. In traditional file system, if any changes are made to the
structure of the files if will affect all the programs, so changes to the structure of a file
may require changing of all programs that access the file. But in case of database
approach the structure of the database is stored separately in the system catalog from the
access of the application programs.
Database can be used to provide persistent storage for program objects and data
;;;l:ﬁt?r;e:eiﬁcr:ﬂgﬁaﬁ }:)bjricglZrientzddq?ft‘aba;se .approa‘ch.. Traditional sys.tem.s suff.ered
in object oriented databaze S sr?e?: Dlat;Cbl;sty b accgssmg the data, e SR
relationships among data's as \ilfell a.s to retr'e Cand i e cgmplex
- efficiently, leve and update related data easily and
It is i 3 . »
failures. The backup and recol\)/ery subs ail gl recovering hardware and software
application devel 2 subsystem tis responsible for recovery. It reduces the
. cevelopment time considerably when compared to th
- and availability of up-to-date information of all th Fate Lo.1he e Systelii S
data’s stored in the database system. =~ - | &1 the users. It also provides sccurity to the
DBMSCS-90
