DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Informally, a superkey is a set of columns within a table whose values can be used to
uniquely identify a row. A candidate key is a minimal set of columns necessary to
identify a row, this is also called a minimal superkey. For example, given an employee
table, consisting of the columns employeelD, name, job, and departmentID, we could use
the employeeID in combination with any or all other columns of this table to uniquely
identify a row in the table. Examples of superkeys in this table would be {employeelD,
Name}, {employeelD, Name, job}, and {employeelD, Name, job, departmentID}.
Foreign key: In the context of relational databases, a foreign key is a referential
constraint between two tables. The foreign key identifies a column or a set of columns in
one (referencing) table that refers to a set of columns in another (referenced) table. The
columns in the referencing table must be the primary key or other candidate key in the
referenced table. The values in one row of the referencing columns must occur in a single
row in the referenced table, Thus, a row in the referencing table cannot contain values
that don't exist in the referenced table (except potentially NULL). This way ‘references
can be made to link information together and it is an essential part of database
normalization:. Multiple rows in the referencing table may refer to the same row in the
referenced table. Most of the time, it reflects the one (master table, or referenced table) to
many (child table, or referencing table) relationship.
The referencing and referenced table may be the same table, i.e. the foreign key refers
back to the same table. Such a foreign key is known in SQL: 2003 as a self-referencing
or recursive foreign key.
A table may have multiple foreign keys, and each foreign key can have a different
referenced table. Each foreign key is enforced independently by the database system.
Therefore, cascading relationships between tables can be established using foreign keys.
Improper foreign key/primary key relationships or not enforcing those relationships are
often the source of many database and data modeling problems. |
Primary Key: The primary key of a relational table uniquely identifies each record in the
table. It can either be a normal attribute that is guaranteed to be unique (such as Social
Security Number in a table with no more than one record per person) or it can be
generated by the DBMS (such as a globally unique identifier, or GUID, in Microsoft SQL
Server). Primary keys may consist of a single attribute or multiple attributes in
combination, ,
Alternate key: In the candidate key the key which is not primary key is the alternate key.
Example:
CUSTOMER {custno, Name, Address} ' '
ORDERS {Order No, Order Date, custno, part-no, project-no}
Here, the relation CUSTOMER having the key attribute custno, the ORDERS relation
holds the custno as a non key attribute. ‘ :
Thus custno in ORDERS is a foreign key w.r.t CUSTOMER
DBMSCS-11
