r
DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
|
ystem makes a}ppropr:ate actions on the other copies, Finally, we can say that it performs
ﬂ;e same function as in tradltlongl DBMSs, and it is not necessarily implemented by the ‘
existing systems, but it shows which levels and schema are conceptually relevant.
How does an auzx'iliary program help in fetching data in a DDBMS?
[nstall an ODBC support for a DBMS by defining the ODBC driver with the ODBC Data
‘ Source Administrator. Nothing to worry about this task because it is typically carried out
by an installation program. Once the ODBC driver has been installed and a database
 created, create a DSN.
‘ DSNs are used to map a specific data source to an ODBC driver. Following are the three
valid types of DSNs supported: |
e User data source: This data source is local to the computer on which it is created
_ and can be used only by the user who creates it.
o System data source: This data source belongs to the computer on which it is
created and belongs to that computer rather than the user who created it. Any
users can access this data source as long as they have the correct privileges.
o File data source: This data source is specific to the underlying database file, in
other words, any user that has the appropriate driver installed can use the data
source.
Each ODBC driver defines what information is needed to éreate a DSN for a data source
that the driver supports. Once the ODBC driver is selected, the ODBC Data Source ;
Administrator, when adding a DSN, instructs the driver to display its configuration dialog
box. At a minimum, most ODBC drivers require the physical filename that represents the
data source, whether the system is local or remote and the folder where the file resides.
7. Define Data Warehouse and briefly describe its characteristics.
[MODEL QUESTION]
Answer; y f
A data warehouse consists of a computer database responsible for the collection and
storage of information for a specific organization. This collection of information is then {
Used to manage information efficiently and analyze the collected data. Although data ‘
Warehouses vary in overall design, majority of them are subject oriented, meaning that
the stored information is connected to objects or events that occur in reality. The data
| Provided by the data warehouse for analysis provides information on a specific subject,
‘ rat.her than the functions of the company and is collected from varying sources into one
| Uit having time-variant. | |
A S‘adflta Warehouse has significantly different features from other enterprise-wide systems,
Micularly in how data is stored, managed and manipulated.
DBMSCS-143 -
%
