POPULAR PUBLICATIONS
aining sites continue to function. The greater accessibility enhances the reliability of
rem
the system. o
3. Efficiency aﬂdffg{'::zléged databases is that data is physically stored close to the
AII. a.dv?ndtagginti ofluse Hence if usage patterns changes then data can be dynamically
| anticipate : ol
moved or replicated to where it is most needed.
4. Sharing distributed databases is that users at a given site are able to access daty
‘A;n agﬁn;?f:r Zifteslsz::d at the same time retain control over the data at their own site
store '
tation: . by ol
23;;-): tali:;aiin;edl;stribution unit that is a subset of a relation (or object in a more genera|
sehsefnthat can be obtained by an expression on the data rpodel la.ngu.age. Common
expressions used for fragmentation of relations include: selections, projections and semi-
joins. _ S
Jln addition to reduce network transfer cost, fragmentation also maximizes concurrency by
allowing concurrent transactions that access disjoint sets of a relation to proceed
independently one of the other. In addition, a single query can also benefit from
fragmentation by accessing in parallel different fragments
Data Replication: _ A _ i
Database replication is the creation and maintenance of multiple copies of the same
database.
Advantages of Replication:
* Availability: failure of site containing relation  does not result in unavailability of 7
' is replicas exist. ,
* Parallelism: queries on » may be processed by several nodes in parallel. ’
* Reduced data transfer: relation r is available locally at each site containing a replica
of r. :
: Data Allocation:‘ Data alloca.tion is the process of defining the location a fragment
ls)hoglld be placed in. The location transparency property defines that applications should
other about. where a fragment has been placed. An extension of the location
transparency includes fragment replication policy :
5. lllustra : :
ety tt:g::'se:::ts‘fres of object oriented database. What are the advantages and
using object oriented database management system?
Answer: ' [MODEL QUESTION
1* part:
13 mandatory features of an ORDBMS are, :
I.- Complex objects must be supported. ‘ |
DBMSCS-138
