DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
subject to other constraints. INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE are not allowed on read-
E only VIEWS, but car[_be changed their base tables.
' An updatable VIEW is one that can have each of its rows associated with exactly one row
‘ in an underlying base table. When the VIEW is changed, the changes pass through the
VIEW to that underlying base table unambiguously. Updatable VIEWs in Standard SQL
are defined only for queries that meet these criteria.

| They are built on only one table

7. No GROUP BY clause

3. No HAVING clause

4. No aggregate functions -

5 No calculated columns ‘

6. No UNION, INTERSECT or EXCEPT

7. No SELECT DISTINCT clause :

8. Any columns excluded from the VIEW must be NULL-able or have a
DEFAULT clause in the base table, so that a whole row can be constructed for
insertion.

By implication, the VIEW must also contain a key of the table. In short. we are
absolutely sure that each row in the VIEW maps back to one and only one row in the base
table. The major advantage of this limited definition is that it is based on syntax and not _
semantics. For example, these VIEWs are logically identical.
¢) Specify the following constraints in SQL using accurate applicable command:
i) All values of attribute mark in relation enrolment must be within 0 and 100.
ii) If the value of attribute grade is ‘A’ then the mark must be more than or equal to
80. If the value of attribute grade is ‘B’ then the mark must be less than 80 but
greater than or equal to 70. [WBUT 2014]
; Answer:
i) SELECT mark
FROM enrolment
where mark between 0 and 100
i) To display the grade for each student:
Select student_id, (Case when score < 80 then ‘B’ :
else ‘A’
end) as grade from marks
6. Consider the following employee database, primary keys are underlined.
Employee(employee-name, street, city)
Works(employee-name, company-name, salary)
Company(company-name, city)
Manages(employee-name, manager-name)
:;r;:til:‘ c?CtJL’s for the queries given below: |
i Findhe names of all employees who work for )SYZ._ T T
o all empl_oyees in the database who live in the sam
tes for which they work.
DBMSCS-51
