DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
After releasing a lock, a transaction must neve i :
f‘;]led hrinking phase. I acquire any more locks. This phase is
ice. a transaction normally holds ] o .
In practice; Y holds locks until it terminates with ei
» . ither a COMMIT
or ROLLBACI?rztl?:f]mzztc'k[{tﬁlea;mg locks before the end of the transaction disallows
the operation O g € changes whenever doing so would necessitate operati
on rows to return them to an earlier state., s~
The two-phase locking theorem
ff all transactions ‘obey the two-phase locking protocol, then all possible interleaved
schedules are serializable.
b) Dead lock:
Suppose t.hat a transaction T1 places an exclusive lock on item A. Transaction T2 places
an exclusw? lock on item B. Transaction T1 attempts to place an exclusive lock on item
. Transaction T1 is placed into a wait state.
[ Transaction TZ'aIFempts to place an exclusive lock on item A. Transaction T2 moves into
| a wait state. This is called as deadlock. Two main ways of dealing the dead locks are:
| There are two main ways to deal with deadlock. They are:
f Deadlock Prevention i.e. prevent deadlock in the first place by giving each transaction
[ exclusive rights to acquire all locks needed before proceeding.
| Deadlock Detection i.e., allow first the deadlock to occur, then break it by aborting one
of the transactions. :
¢) Transaction state diagram: -~ ’
\_commmed
¢ active
G
States of transaction
j A transaction must be in one of the following states: A :
| Active: the initial state, the transaction stays in this state while it is executing.
Ir Paf‘tially committed: after the final statement has been executed.
i Failed: when the normal execution can no longer proceed. ;
' Aborted: after the transaction has been rolled back and the database has been restored to
'g’ state prior to the start of the transaction.
Ommitted: after successful completion.
dR)Time stamp based protocol for concurrency protocol: i
efer to Question No. 5 (Zmi part) of Short Answer Type Questions.
| DBMSCS-125
