| Short Answer Type Questions
1. What is two phase locking protocol? [WBUT 2008, 2012, 20
i i ili ’ ' 17]
How does it guarantee serializability?
| ) OR, [WBUT 2008, 2017)] }
griefly explain two phase locking protocol, ‘
| OR, [WBUT 2015]
pescribe different 2PL protocol in brief. [WBUT 2018]
Answer:
Two-phase locking
According 1o ‘h? two-phase lgcking protocol, a transaction handles its locks in two
distinct, consecuylve phases during the transaction's execution:
1. Expanding phase (aka Growing phase): locks are acquired and no locks are
released (the number of locks can only increase).
, ; A Shrinkil'lg phase: locks are released and no locks are acquired.
The serializability property is guaranteed for a schedule with transactions that obey the
; protocol‘. The ?_PL schedule class is defined as the class of all the schedules comprising
; rransactions with data access qrders that could be generated by the 2PL protocol (or in
other words, all the schedules that the 2PL protocol can generate).
Typically, without explicit knowledge in a transaction on end of phase-1, it is safely
determined only when a transaction has entered its ready state in all its processes
(processing has ended, and it is ready to be committed; no additional data access and
locking are needed and can happen). In this case phase-2 can end immediately (no
additional processing is needed), and actually no phase-2 is needed. Also, if several
processes (two or more) are involved, then a synchronization point (similar to atomic
commitment) among them is needed to determine end of phase-1 for all of them (i.e., in
the entire distributed transaction), to start releasing locks in phase-2 (otherwise it is very
likely that both 2PL and Serializability are quickly violated). Such synchronization point
is usually too costly (involving a distributed protocol similar to atomic commitment), and
end of phase-1 is usually postponed to be merged with transaction end (atomic
commitment protocol for a multi-process transaction), and again phase-2 is not needed.
This turns 2PL to SS2PL (see below). All known implementations of 2PL in products are
| SS2PL based, and whenever 2PL (or Strict 2PL, S2PL) practical utilization has been
i mentioned in the professional literature, the intention has been SS2PL.
P
l 2. Describe ACID properties in DBMS. (WBUT 2009]
| OR,
; What is ACID property? [WBUT 2013, 2019]
. OR,
Discuss the ACID properties of a Database transaction. [WBUT 2015]
OR,
Explain the ACID properties of transactions. [WBUT 2016]
. OR,
Discuss the ACID properties of transactions. [WBUT 2017]
PBMSCS-103
