DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
The graph forms 8 Eycle between'thel nodes T S 17 il s e il B
conflict seralizable.
7. What do you mean by integrity constraint? [WBUT 2013, 2019]
Answer: ' i A . )
An integrity constraint defines a business ryle for a table column. When enabled. the rule
will be enforced by oracle ( and so will always be trye. ) To create an integrity constraint
all existing table data must satisfy the constraint -
Default valuc‘s are also subject to integrity constraint checking (defaults are included as
part of an INSERT statement before the statement js parsed.)
If the results of an INSERT or UPDATE statement violate an integrity constraint, the
statement will be rolled back.
Integrity constraints are stored as part of the table definition, (in the data dictionary.)
If multiple applications access the same table they will all adhere to the same rule.
| 8. a) What is transaction? [WBUT 2013, 2019]
' Answer:
A transaction is a set of changes that must all be made together. Transaction is executed
as a single unit. If the database was in consistent state before a transaction, then after
execution of the transaction also, the database must be in a consisted.
b) Explain with exémple serial and serializable schedule. [WBUT 2013, 2019]
Answer: :
A schedule S is said to be a serial if for every participating transaction T in the schedule,
executes consecutively. Here in the example S1 is a serial schedule but not S2. A
schedule S of n transactions is serializable, if is equivalent to some serial schedule of the
same n transactions.
c) What are the problems of concurrent execution of iransaction?
[WBUT 2013, 2019]
Answer: ,
If locking is not available and several users access a database concurrently, problems may
occur if their transactions use the same data at the same time. Concurrency problems
include;
* Lost or buried updates.
*  Uncommitted dependency (dirty read).
* Inconsistent analysis (non-repeatable read). '
' * Phantom reads
Lost Updates .
Lost updates occur when twoormotetmgsactlmsselectmesa.mel:owarﬂﬂmwdate
the row based on the value originally selected. Each transaction is unaware of other
ransactions. The last update overwrites updates made by the other transactions, which
results in lost data., |
R Ll ; :: ‘;f.“/-_‘i' .,‘::1’,-._";_‘[ ] .'I '-‘”:-J::‘ . ‘\J-
' |
