PUBLICATIONS i
a evolution lization provide for a better.

5 Su’.,po”f.orsc"efmilities such as inheritance and gen)erat t tio}; e éﬂer
Object oriented factliti€ . i captures a better representa eal-world
structured schema, which 45
objects.

o Improved p'e’forma"';ed e Object-oriented environment ha.ve ' proved very
The facilities prov! eearc—h done in this field and many (ests indicate that the
effective. Previous re};MS b up A0 30-fold improvement on the RDBMS
performance of 00D :
performance.

: O model o .

b) EER model - theO_ : relationships are significantly easier to

i) schema comprehension: ternary . £
comprehend in the EER model than in the OO model; SR

ii) the EER model supasses the 00 model for designing unary and ternary
relationships; _

iii) time: it takes less time to design EER schemas;_

iv) preferences: the EER model is preferred by designers.

We conclude that even if the objective is to implement an OO database schema, the

fol'owing procedure is still recommended: 1) create an EER conceptual schema, 2) map it

to an OO schema, and 3) augment the OO schema with behavioral constructs that are
unique to the OO approach.

4. a) Explain the concept of Distributed Database. What are the advantages and

functions of distributed database?

} B) D_escnbe briefly the following terms which are needed for Distributed Database
esign: .
Data Fragmentation.
Data Replication.
Data Allocati

e ation. [MODEL QUESTION]

a) A distributed datab :

of database technol(z)lsg(;/ Sb;sr:m (DDBMS) is a technology fostered by the development

independence for yser applicaticompl:ter net.work. Database systems provide data

independent of physical implemen(;;ltsi Y offering a logical view of the st NEN

On the other sig £

. €, comput ]

communicate. This is relevgnte:o g;tt\’\éorks alow physically distributed machines to

various reasons like Privacy, efficie Nt t,CCh.“_Ology because one may consider that for

Fo be closer to him/her of be re ?‘Cy . reliability, scalability users may want their data

integrated global view of it plicated through different nodes and still obtain an

Thus, DDBMSs explores ihe !

istri com A nt AL

d:itnbuted users the same level ofr‘n Su fllc.atmn facilities of a computer network to offer .

gonsrytr processing, transaction manageervlces obtained in a centralized database system:
aint support, Ment, recovery processing, security guaranties, and
- DBMSCS-136 ' i
