POPULAR PUBLICATIONS | k-
So cost of swapping medoid from ¢ tO Qig = |
S = current total cost — past total cost =22 —-20= 2.> 0 , e
So moving to O’ would be a bad idea, so the previous choice was good. So we try o
nonmedoids and found that our first chonce was the b;st. Sc? thl(: conglg}u'atm "
change and algorithm terminates here (i.e. there is no change in the me oids). :
6. What is metadata in Data warehousing? What is metadata catalog? Dis ""
different categories of metadata used in od':ta warehouse. [WBUT 2 ]
- a) What is metadata? ' el | [WBUT “ )
b) What is the typical content of metadata Rof a data warehouse? [WBUT 201
: What is Metadata? Explain-different types of Metadata. [WBUT 20177
Answer: b
Metadata is simply defined as data about data. The data that is used to represent othey
data is known as metadata. In terms of data warehouse, we can define metadata as
follows. e
e Metadata is the road-map to a data warehouse. il
e Metadata in a data warehouse defines the warehouse objects. - -
e Metadata acts as a directory. This directory helps the decision support system to
locate the contents of a data warehouse. e '»:'In ¥
A collection of metadata records combined with data management and search tools “
a data catalogue. The architecture of these data catalogues can vary from tightly helc
internal data indexes to widely accessible distributed catalogues spread across the
Internet. ¥
’ Metadata can be broadly categorized into three categories: R
o . Business Metadata: It has the data ownership information, business definition, and
changing policies. : . - A
o Techpical Metadata: It includes database system names, table and column
fmd sizes, data types apd allowed values. Technical metadata also includes structu
mforma'tlon such as primary and foreign Key attributes and indices. ' -
° (?peratlopal Metadata: It includes currency of data and data lineage. Currency of
h:clta means whet}.ler the data is active, archived, or purged. Lineage of data means the
istory of data migrated and transformation applied on it.
Long Answer Type Questions
1. a) What is clusterinc it diffi |
g? Why is it difficult to h A A
olisdt . : _ andle categorical data 10
ering? Distinguish between partition clustering and hierarchical clustering.
What is clustering? Wt OR, T LS v?i-li‘
hierarchical clustgring '::::I:r': th_O?_antures of qpod cluster? WHELES TSI
que [WBUT 2013, 2014, 2016, 2U1°
