access to the relevant reports without affecting performa;c;. ilﬁ:z:::vg, a distributeq
warehouse is said to be the core of all enterprise data xlv Ic phedberi mation van
to individual data marts. Bu doing so, users can €astly ac e ©quire
billing, sales analysis and other reporting funes .
order management, customer OIINg, SAE3 DS o types, which e s S |
Distributed data warehouses can be categorized into three types, ws:
« In this type, there is a local data warehq ‘
= Local and global data warehouse: ’ , ite and. otk
which represents the data unique to the local .ogeratmg site and, zlobal g
' a rt of data which s integrated across the busine
warehouse which represents that part 0 , o catly thi
= Technologically distributed data warehouse: In this type, 10gi€ h'yh reIs a sin
data warehouse but physically there are many data warehouses which are all
and distributed over multiple processors. . S
» Independently evolving distributed data ware!louse: In this ty;?e, data archoy
: environment builds in an uncoordinated envnronment..That |s,.ﬁrst one g
warehouse appears, then second and so on. Therefo.re, it results in polm ‘
organizational differences due to the lack of coordination among different d;
| warehouses. | b
W . l;
The advantages of using distributed data warehouse are as follows: '
« It is faster to achieve as each local site can control over its design and resources.
» There is no limit for placing the data into each local or global -data we
' However, additional processors can be added if the volume of data exceeds the
of distributed processors. . o
» The entry cost is much less than with centralized structure. The requirement ¢
1 hardware and software is much less when loaded initially on distributed technology.
The distributed data warehouse has some disadvantages also. These are as follows:
= [ssues like metadata, data transfer makes the environment complex and results
more overhead , R
* Managing multiple development efforts on local sites is an unmanageable task |
data warehouse architect. ¥
- ® Inadistributed environment, the roles and responsibilities are not clearly defined.
" Major technological problems could arise by transfer of data and multiple tab
queries. . ; i
" When the warehouse is distributed over multiple servers, excessive network trafl
_ gartsdt.o flow from source to destination. i
* Coordinatin vk o] L
| iy g development across the distributed locations becomes complex
* Interconnectivity between the diffe ' : o
| AL rent local sites of distributed d house ¢
' be problematic in case of traffic congestion. A | a.t ity = :'%_‘
