. DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING
Financial Data Analysis ,
The ﬁnanc'ial datz.l_m banking anfi financial industry is generally reliable and of high
qualit)’ which facilitates systematic data analysis and data mining. Some of the typical
cases are as follows =
o Design anc! cfonstruction of data warehouses for multidimensional data analysis '
and data mining. L
« Loan payment prediction and customer credit policy analysis.
o Classification and clustering of customers for targeted marketing. ‘ ‘
« Detection of money laundering and other financial crimes.
. Retail Industry . :
‘ Data Mining has its great application in Retail Industry because it collects large amount
of data from on sales, customer purchasing history, goods transportation, consumption
and services. It is natural that the quantity of data collected will continue to expand
. rapidly because of the increasing ease, availability and popularity of the web.
‘ Data mining in retail industry helps in identifying customer buying patterns and trends
that lead to improved quality of customer service and good customer retention and
. satisfaction. Here is the list of examples of data mining in the retail industry — '
o Design and Construction of data warehouses based on the benefits of data
| mining. '
« Multidimensional analysis of sales, customers, products, time and region.
o Analysis of effectiveness of sales campaigns.
o Customer Retention.
e Product recommendation and cross-referencing of items. '
Telecommunication Industry
- - Today the telecommunication industry is one of the most emerging industries providing
| various services such as fax, pager, cellular phone, internet messenger, images, e-mail, '
. web data transmission, etc. Due to the development of new computer and communication
: technologies, the telecommunication industry is rapidly expanding. This is the reason '
why data mining is become very important to help and understand the business.
' Data mining in telecommunication industry helps in identifying the telecommunication
patterns, catch fraudulent activities, make better use of resource, and improve quality of
serv@ce. Here is the list of examples for which data mining improves telecommunication
services — :
* Multidimensional Analysis of Telecommunication data.
* Fraudulent pattern analysis. '
* Identification of unusual patterns.
* Multidimensional association and sequential patterns analysis.
* Mobile Telecommunication services.
*  Use of visualization tools in telecommunication data analysis.
DWM-45
