"
DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING
2) Top-down approach: .
At op-down melhod approaches a problem from the high level view a system.
For example, in a bottom-up business example a company will look at sales and customer
data to extract any patterns. _ b
A top-down approach could model a corporation and its strategy and ask the .followmg.
who are the target 'cqstomers? What is the supply chain? What is the marketing? How are A
the departments divided? What are the corporate sales policies? How are sales team
incentivized? i
There are external factors that also need to be considered in this example such as
competition from other companies and the overall economy. If all the divisions of the
company are not aligned with the corporate strategy then it will be easy to understand »
that the target sales and customer reach will not be optimal. By starting from the top and
then deconstructing the parts and understanding the interactions between the parts one
| can gain an understanding of what type of customers can be reached and attracted.
I h) Backpropagation algorithm: ,
f Backpropagation, is a common method of training artificial neural networks and used in
| conjunction with an optimization method such as gradient descent. The algorithm repeats ;
2 a two phase cycle, propagation and weight update. When an input vector is presented to
{ the network, it is propagated forward through the network, layer by layer, until it reaches
: the output layer. The output of the network is then compared to the desired output, using
aloss function, and an error value is calculated for each of the neurons in the output
layer. The error values are then propagated backwards, starting from the output, until
each neuron has an associated error value which roughly represents its contribution to the
- original output. _
_ Backpropagation uses these error values to calculate the gradient of the loss function with X
- respect to the weights in the network. In the second phase, this gradient is fed to the
i optimization method, which in turn uses it to update the weights, in an attempt to
minimize the loss function.
The importance of this process is that, as the network is trained, the neurons in the
' Intermediate layers organize themselves in such a way that the different neurcns learn to
- recognize different characteristics of the total input space. After training, when an
' afbltrary input pattern is present which contains noise or is incomplete, neurons in the
hidden layer of the network will respond with an active output if the new input contains a
- Patiern that resembles a feature that the individual neurons have learned to recognize
durmg their training. '
CB;cctﬁ’;;P:l}igatlion requi'res a kqown, .d_esired output for each .input value in order to
‘ learning b :hos.s function gradle.nt 2 it is therefore. usually consnderec‘i to be a supervised
% aUtoencgd od; nqnetheless, lt' is also used in some unsuper.vnse,d networks such
etworks. :gs. It is a gene_rahzatlon pf the de!ta n.Jle to multl-layereq feedforward
b laye, B,a % e POSSlPle by using the chain rule to lt.eratlvely compute gradients for each
- eurong (q "Propag"atlon requires that the activation functionused by the artificial
I "nodes") be differentiable. ‘
‘ DWM-63 ' ' ‘
