DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING
are optimized for addition, updating and deletion of data in a real-time Online
Transaction System.
These dimensional and relational models have their unique way of data storage that has -
specific advantages. . .
For instance, in the relational mode, normalization and ER models reduce redundancy in '
data. On the contrary, dimensional model arranges data in such a way that it is easier to
retrieve information and generate reports. ]
Hence, Dimensional models are used in data warehouse syétems and not a good fit for
relational systems. ) _
b) Generalized Association Rule: |
In most real-life applications taxonomies (is-a hierarchies) over the items are available. |
, In general, a taxonomy can be represented as a directed acyclic graph (DAG). Given a |
set of transactions T each of which is a set of items, and a taxonomy Tax, the problem of ;
mining generalized association rules is to discover all rules of the form X 2 Y, with the
' user-specified minimum support and minimum confidence. X and Y can be sets of items
at any level of the taxonomy, such that no item in Y is an ancestor of any item in X. For
example, there might be a rule which says that "S0% of transactions that contain Soft
drinks also contain Snacks; 5% of all transactions contain both these items"
¢) PAM Clustering Technique: ‘
PAM stands for “partition around medoids”. The algorithm is intended to find a sequence
of objects called medoids that are centrally located in clusters. Objects that are tentatively ‘
defined as medoids are placed into a set S of selected objects. ‘
If O is the set of objects that the set U = O — S is the set of unselected objects. The goal of
the algorithm is to minimize the average dissimilarity of objects to their closest selected
object. Equivalently, we can minimize the sum of the dissimilarities between object and |
‘ their closest selected object.
The algorithm has two phases: :
(i) In the first phase, BUILD, a collection of k objects are selected for an initial set S. ‘
' (ii) In the second phase, SWAP, one tries to improve the quality of the clustering by ‘
. exchanging selected objects with uniselected objects. j
The goal of the algorithm is to minimize the average dissimilarity of objects to their
closest selected object. Equivalently, we can minimize the sum of the dissimilarities
E- between object and their closest selected object.
, dTLgLA;_{ANS clust.erigg algorithm vis-ﬁ-\fis PAM and CLARA: - ,
| poin?sle lOd]: searching in PAM or CLARA is abstracted as searching k subgra}phs from n
CLA REEIS) ,Cand be_lsed on this unfier§tand1ng, a PAM-like clus-tering algorlt‘hm called
While PAM( lustering Large Applications based upon RANdomized Search) is defined. :
Eniik st searches the whole graph and CLARA searcheg some ra-ndo.m sub-graphs,
e Crlajndomly samples a se-t and .select's k med01ds- in chmblpg sub-graph
medoids, | ARANS selects the neighboring objects of medoids as capdxdates of new
- It samples subsets to verify medoids in multiple times to avoid bad samples.
| DWM-33
