POPULAR PUBLICATIONS
Mining partial, categorical, and asynchronous _peflOdlC pattEs PlosteS
problems in regards to the development of efﬁc;ent data mining 5‘; utions. 1his is be, al
most statistical methods or those relying on time-to-frequency domain transformag,

‘ are either inapplicable or expensive at handlir}g such problerr.lsl. & o .
Take mining partial periodicity as an example;. Because partia Pe: ICIty miXes perigg,
events and non-periodic events together the same period, @ tlme-to-f '€qQuenc,
transformation method, such as FFT, becomes lpc?ffectlve l?ecause it treats the time serjg
as an inseparable flow of values. Certain period}CIty detection metl.mc_is can _
partial periodic patterns, but only if the period, length, and timing of the' Segment
(subsequence of interest) in the partial patterns have certain behqvnors and are ¢ it
specified. For the newspaper reading example, we need to explicitly specify det.a[b'
as “Find the regular activities of Sandy during the half-hour -after 7:.00.for a period of 24
hours.” A naive adaptation of such methods to the partlal .pel:lodl(.} pattern u».glr_,;
problem would be prohibitively expensive, requiring t.helr application Fo a l_mge : 1..]‘
of possible combinations of the three parameters of period, length, and timing. k.
Most of the studies on mining partial periodic patterns apply the Apriori property
heuristic and adopt some variations of Apriori-like mining methods. Constraints can also
be pushed deep into the mining process. Studies have also been performed on the
efficient mining of partially periodic events patterns or asynchronous periodic ;n.r:"
with unknown or with approximate periods. .. :
Mining partial periodicity may lead to the discovery of cyclic or periodic association
rules, which are rules that associate a set of events that occur periodically. An examp e of
a periodic association rule is “Based on day-to-day transactions, if afternoon tea is well
received between 3:00 to 5:00 p.m., dinner will sell well between 7:00 to 9:00 p.m.
weekends.” =
Due to the diversity of applications of time-related sequence data, further developnmf
(eiﬂif:ie(rilt algorithms for mining various kinds of periodic patterns in sequence data bases is

esired. ‘
i. What are applications of data mining? ' [MODEL QUESTIC
nswer: , e
Dflté} mining is wic.iely used in diverse areas. There are a number of commercial dat
e
i i rend of data mining. : "y
Data Mining Applications: o
Here is the list of areas where data mining is widely used — ":-
* Financial Data Analysis | i
* Retail Industry g

* Telecommunication Industry | L

* Biological Data Analysis 8

*  Other Scientific Applications

e Intrusion Dete(?tion _ E .

- DWM-44 . A
