T T ———
DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING
5. Write short notes on the following: ,
o) Sivatagic IrFIIEISREE o [WBUT 2014, 2016]
poataMart _ 2 [WBUT 2017]
b) 'sil:ens,i:?:gc allenges in data mining [WBUT 2009]
c) o515 vis.a-vis Data Mining o i T
Answer: PR
) Strategic inforl_nati‘on: :
' Strategic information is needed for the day to day operations, meeting of government
' requirements as well long and short range planning. Strategic information systems are
‘ used by organizations to achieve a competitive advantage for the organization.
A Strategic Information System (SIS) is a system that helps companies change or
. otherwise alter their business strategy and/or structure. It is typically utilized to
streamline and quicken the reaction time to environmental changes and aid it in achieving
i a competitive advantage. Strategic information systems relies on data gathered at all
- organizational levels and from all information systems whether it was transaction
{ processing systems, management information systems, decision support systems or i
i executive information systems. :
i Key features of the Strategic Information Systems are the following:
i- i) Decision support systems that enable to develop a strategic approach to align
! Information Systems (IS) or Information Technologies (IT) with an organization's
business strategies ‘
;n iij) Primarily Enterprise resource planning solutions that integrate/link the business
3 processes to meet the enterprise objectives for the optimization of the enterprise resources ;
iii) Database systems with the "data mining" capabilities to make the best use of available -
1 corporate information for marketing, production, promotion and innovation. The SIS
systems also facilitate identification of the data collection strategies to help optimize '
database marketing opportunities. | 3
iv) The real-time information Systems that intend to maintain a rapid-response and the T
f quality indicators. :
| <
: b) Data Mart: Refer to Question No. 1 of Short Answer Type Questions.
! ¢) Issues and challenges in data mining:
, One of the key issues raised by data mining technology is not a business or technological
one, but a social one. It is the issue of individual privacy. Data mining makes it possible _
P analyze routine business transactions and glean a significant amount of information
about md'ividuals buying habits and preferences. o
dA;;Zt:\;r Issue is that of data integr.ity. Clearly, .data analysis can only t.)e as goqd as the
redundzt Is being analy-zed. A key implementation challenge is integrating conﬂu;tmg or
. P nt data from q:t"ferent sources. For example, a bank may maintain credit gards ; ,
UIS on several different databases. The addresses (or even the names) of a single
' DWM-15 . .
