DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING |
ransactions of D into » nonoverlapping partitions. If the minimum support threshold for
jransactions 1n D s R B .then the minimum support count for a partition is minsup,
the number of transactions in that partition. For each partition, all frequent itemsets
within the partition are found. Th.ese are referred to as local frequent itemsets. In Phase I,
a second scan of D is conducted in which the actual support of each candidate is assessed
, in order t0 determine the global frequent itemsets. Partition size and the number of
partitions are set so that each partit.ion can fit into main memory and therefore be read
only once in each phase. The following figure describes the phases. .
Phase | ' Phase II
DivideD | = | Findthe - Combine all Find global
: : frequent Frequent
f : -' :
| local to form among -
A . each . candidate candidates
partition itemsets )
Apriori algorithm needs many database scans and for each scan, frequent itemsets are
| searched by pattern matching, which is especially time-consuming for large frequent
‘ itemsets with long patterns. Partition algorithm uses the intersection of transaction ids
‘ (tids) to determine the support count. Because it performs a breadth-first search, it
partitions the database into blocks in which local frequent itemsets are found to overcome
the memory limitations. An extra database scan is needed to determine the global
frequency of local frequent itemsets.
4. What is clustering? Discuss two main methods of clustering. [WBUT 2010]
Answer: _
1" Part: Refer to Question No. 1(a) (1 * Part) of Long Answer Type Questions.
E 2"Part:
The non-hierarchical techniques in general are faster to create from the historical
database but require that the user make some decision about the number of clusters
desired or the minimum “nearness”. required for two records to be within the same
cluster. These non-hierarchical techniques are often run multiple times starting off with
Some arbitrary or even random clustering and then iteratively improving the clustering by
Zlg:ftﬂmg some records around. These techniques sometimes create clusters that are :
the; :j(i:?th only one pass through the database .ad_dmg rccord-s to existing c{usters_ when
S recoigd gre‘atmg new clus!e_rs when no existing cluster is a good candidate for the
b Choic. efcausg the de_ﬁnlllon of which clusters are formed can depend on these -
| e technies of which starting clusters should be cho_sen or even how. mgny clusters _
‘ SOMetimes cgelzfs c'at? be less repeatable than the hierarchical techniques and can ;
. Predeterm: ¢ either too many or too few clusters because the numt.m‘ of clusters is iy
| ined by the user not determined solely by the patterns inherent in the database. |
3 - » S 7 i AL *;
