pata Mart - a subset of corporate-wide data that is of value to specific groups of users.
lts scope is confined to specific, selected groups, such as marketing data mart.
virtual warehouse - A set of views over operational databases. Only some of the
| possible summary views may be materialized. X
| 8. How is data warehouse different from a database? ~ [WBUT 2013, 2016, 2018]
Answer: ; . )
A database is used to store data while a data warechouse is mostly used to facilitate
reporting and analysis. Basically, database is just where the data is stored; in order to
access this data or analyze it a database management system is required. However, a data
warehouse does not necessarilyl require a DBMS. The purpose of a data warehouse is for _
‘ easy access to the data for a user. The data warehouse may also be used to analyze the '
data; however the actual process of analysis is called data mining.
Some differences between a database and a data warehouse: : :
- o A database is used for Online Transactional Processing (OLTP) but can be used
for other purposes such as Data Warehousing. ' :
e A data warehouse is used for Online Analytical Processing (OLAP). This reads
the historical data for the Users for business decisions.
o In a database the tables and joins are complex since they are normalized for
RDMS. This reduces redundant data and saves storage space.
o In data warehouse, the tables and joins are simple since they are de-normalized.-
‘ This is done to reduce the response time for analytical queries.
¢ Relational modeling techniques are used for RDMS database design, whereas ;
modeling techniques are used for the Data Warehouse design. .
o A database is optimized for write operation, while a data warehouse is optimized =
for read operations. ‘ RR
e In a database, the performance is low for analysis queries, while in a data
' warehouse, there is high performance for analytical queries.
. o A data warehouse is a step ahead of a database. It includes a database in its
structure. ok :
9. What are the issues relating to the diversity of database types? [WBUT 2016]
‘ Answer: '
‘ * Handling of relational and complex types of data — The database may contain :
’ complex data objects, multimedia data objects, spatial data, temporal data ete. It is |
» not possible for one system to mine all these kind of data. : ,
* Mining information from heterogeneous databases and global information
Systems — The data is available at different data sources which may be structured, -
‘. semi structured or unstructured. Therefore mining the knowledge from them adds
challenges to data mining. . s o
::'K'::wlet:’ce the idea of Data Mining with example(s). What are the steps in e s
ge discovery in Database (KDD) proces ;xful-,' e
. DWMET. e
