" ,
DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING
Moreover, an operational database Supports the concurrent processing of several
iransactions. An OLAP query often needs read-only access of data reco_rds fqr
summarization and aggregation. .Concurrency control and recovery mechanisms, if
applied for such OLAP operations, may jeopardi_ze the execution of concurrent
yransactions and thus substantially reduce the throughput of an OLTP system.
b) 4
I. roll up from day to month to year .
2. slice for year = *2008” y
‘ 3. roll up on item from individual item to all
4. slice for item = “all”
5. get the list of total sales by each branch in 2008
3.a) What is tree pruning? What are the different tree pruning techniques?
[WBUT 2013, 2014]
b) Evaluate Information Gain and Gain Ratio with suitable example. [WBUT 2013]
u Answer:
a) When a decision tree is built many of the branches will reflect anomalies in the
training data due to noise or outliers. Tree pruning methods address this problem of over
fitting the data. There are two common approaches to tree pruning,
¢ Pre-pruning: In the pre-pruning approach, -a tree is “pruned” by halting its
construction early. Upon halting, the node becomes leaf. The leaf may hold most :
frequent class among the subsets tuples or the probability distribution of those tuples.
: When constructing a tree, attribute selection measures such as statistical significance,
information gain, gini index and so on can be used to access the goodness of a split.
| If partitioning  the tuple at node would result in a split that falls below a pre-specified
‘ threshold, then further partitioning of a given subset is halted. There are difficulties,
' however in choosing an appropriate threshold. High threshold could result in
= oversimplified trees; whereas low thresholds could result in very little simplification.
' * Post-pruning: Post-pruning removes sub trees from a “fully grown™ tree. A sub tree
' at a given node is pruned by removing its branches and replacing it with leaf. The
leaf is labeled with the most frequent class among the sub tree being replaced. The
“best” pruned tree is one that minimizes the encoding bits. This method adopts MDL
(Minimum Description Length) principle. The basic idea is that the simplest solution
1S preferred. Alternatively, pre-pruning and post-pruning may be interleaved for a
, ombined approach. Post-pruning requires more computation than pre-pruning, yet
generally leads to a more reliable tree. Although pruned tree tends to be more
| compact than their unpruned counterparts, they may still be rather large and complex.
Decision tree can suffer from repetition and replication.
b lnformation gain (IG) is utilized by the ID3/C4.5/YaDT family of algorith
measureofth ffecti ) is utilize Y E y gt msa§a
Bain is o, ¢ ellectiveness of an attribute in classifying the training data. Information
_ Mputed by measuring the difference between the entropy of the dataset betore
DWM-53
