a) Border set b) Frequent set
¢) Maximal frequent set d) Lattice
Answer: (b) . '
. | Short Answer Type Questions
; 1. Explain the use of Dynamic itemset counting algorithm. [WBUT 2009]
OR,
| pescribe the principle of Dynamic Itemset Counting technique for Frequent Itemset
E generation. : [WBUT 2010]
| Answer: i
- Dynamic Itemset Counting is an alternative to Apriori Itemset Generation. Here Itemsets
‘ are dynamically added and deleted as transactions are read and it relies on the fact that for
‘ an itemset to be frequent, all of its subsets must also be frequent, so we only examine
those itemsets whose subsets are all frequent. '
Algorithm stops after every M transactions to add more itemsets.
o Train analogy: There are stations every M transactions. The passengers are itemsets. ‘
Itemsets can get on at any stop as long as they get off at the same stop in the next
| pass around the database. Only itemsets on the train are counted when they occur in
transactions. At the very beginning we can start counting I-itemsets, at the first
station we can start counting some of the 2-itemsets. At the second station we can
’ start counting 3-itemsets as well as any more 2-itemsets that can be counted and so
! 0] 7 Ml :
Itemsets are marked in four different ways as they are counted:
, * Solid box: D confirmed frequent itemset - an itemset we have finished counting
and exceeds the support threshold minsupp
.+ Solid circle: O confirmed infrequent itemset - we have finished counting and it is
below minsupp
* Dashed box: :_ | suspected frequent itemset - an itemset we are still counting that
| exceeds minsupp
* Dashed circle: . suspected infrequent itemset - an itemset we are still counting
that is below minsupp
: DIC Algorithm '
I 1\fiark the empty itemset with a solid square. Mark all the 1-itemsets with dashed
‘ ; circles. Leave all other itemsets unmarked. .
- While any dashed itemsets remain:
_‘ . Va) iead M trgnsactions (if we reach the end of the transaction file, continue from
| ite beginning). For each transaction, increment the respective counters for the
. femzets that appear in the transaction and are marked with dashes. | ,
, : ima a§hed circle's count exceeds minsupp, turn it into a dashed s quarc- i sy =
- mediate Superset of it has all of its subsets as solid or dashed squares, T
- “W counter for it and make it a dashed circle. Fﬁf T iy
. DWM-21 i e
