T — e R S ——— 1
' DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING
for client to C_O"P"—Ct at 3:}'\;23 time to get the results. Distributed systems provides support
where optimization methods to data design and OLAP queries in the data warehouse
' environ(nffm ShO_Uld be ]mplemented with an objective of supporting the decision makers
by providing a single i of data. even though that data is physically distributed across
. multiple data warehouses in multiple systems at different branches . Another work on
. grid-aware data warehouses is presented in (Lawrence Rau-Chaplin 2006).The OLAP-
Enabled Grid considers the scenario where the data of a single organization is distributed
across a n_u'm_ber of OPeratlgnal databases at remote locations. Each operational database .
has capabilities for answering OLAP queries, and access to a possible variety of other
computational and storage resources which are located close by. Users who are interested
~ indoing OLAP on these databases are distributed over the network.
Below are some new trends and opportunities in data warehousing. '
. o The “datafication” of the enterprise requires more capable data warehouses.
o Physical and logical consolidation help reduce costs.
~ « Hadoop optimizes data warehouse environments.
-« Customer experience (CX) strategies use realtime analytics to improve marketing
campaigns.
o Engineered systems are becoming a preferred approach for large scale information '
management.
 « On-demand analytics environments meet the growing demand for rapid prototyping
and information discovery '
e Data compression enables higher-volume, higher value analytics
o In-database analytics simplify analysis ' ‘ :
. 6. What are recent trends in data mining? [MODEL QUESTION]
Answer:
Businesses which have been slow in adopting the process of data mining are now : !
catching up with the others. Extracting important information through the process of data
mining is widely used to make critical business decisions. In the coming decade, we can
- expect data mining to become as ubiquitous as some of the more prevalent technologies
. used today. -
Some of the key data mining trends for the future include — o
- L. Multimedia Data Mining:
~ This is one of the latest methods which is catching up because of the growing ability to
~ ¢apture useful data accurately. It involves the extraction of data from different kinds of
- Mmultimedia sources such as audio, text, hypertext, video, images, etc. and the data is
?:nvlerted.mto a numerical representation in dlffc.ere_nt fonnats. This method can pe us‘ed
Clustering and classifications, performing similarity checks, and also to identify
associations.
| DWM-79 ‘
