DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING
warehouses vary in' e all design, majority of them are subject oriented, meaning that
the stored information 1s connected to Objf!CtS or events that occur in reality. The data
provided by the data warehouse for analysis provides information on a specific subject,
rather than the functions of the company and is collected from varying sources into one
‘ unit having tlme-v.arlant.. : ‘ : : .
A data warehouse has mgmﬁcant]y different features from other enterprise-wide systems,
particularly in how data 1s sto.rec_i, managed and manipulated.
v There are four key characteristics which separate the data warehouse from other major
l Operational systems: : :
‘ 1. Subject Orientation: Data organized by subject '
R 2. Integration: Consistency of defining parameters }
3. Non-volatility: Stable data storage medium - ;
4. Time-variance: Timeliness of data and access terms '
2. a) What are the different tiers in a typical 3-tier data warehousing architecture?
b) What do you mean by warehousing schema? Explain. ‘ [WBUT 2009] .
Answer: ' | :
a) The bottom tier is a warehouse database server which is almost always a relational
database system. '
The middle tier is an OLAP server which is typically implemented using either (1) a
Relational. OLAP (ROLAP) model, i.e., an extended relational DBMS that maps
operations on multidimensional data to standard relational operations; or (2) a
Multidimensional OLAP (MOLAP) model, i.e., a special purpose server that directly - :
implements multidimensional data and operations. : :
The top tier is a client, which contains query and reporting tools, analysis tools, and/or
data mining tools (e.g., trend analysis, prediction, and so on).
b) The entity-relationship data model is commonly used in the design of relational
databases, where a database schema consists of a set of entities. or objects, and the
relationships between them. Such a data model is appropriate for online transaction
processing. Data warehouses, however, require a concise, subject-oriented schema which
_ facilitates on-line data analysis. - _ :
3.3) Introduce the concept of data mining and cite two application areas. : |
b) What : o [WBUT 2010, 2012]
&5 at are the different steps_ of a datg mining task? : [W.BUT 20-10, 201_2]
oy I::ose tha.t the dat_a mining task is to cluster the following eight points (with
| ’ Presenting location) into 3 clusters.
o A(200),4,(25),4,(8,4),B,(5.8).8,(7.5). B, (6.4).C,(12),C,(49)
c::td'shnce function is Euclidian distance. Initially we assign 4, B, and C, as the .
ré of each cluster. Use k-means algorithm to determine the three clusters. '
. Part: Regey I st A
i 0 of Question No. 2(1** Part) of Short Ama{ pe Que
