DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING
~ ,nd when they are likely to buy certain products. This information is often used to
Jetermine where to place certain products and when to put certain products on sale. ‘
2. Write short notes on the following:
a) web-Enabled Data Warehouse [WBUT 2011]
~ p) Arbor Essbase Web [WBUT 2012, 2015, 2017
c) Automatic Cla.ssllﬁcation of Web Documents [MODEL QUESTION]
d) Web Usage Mining [MODEL QUESTION]
Answer:

' a) Web-Enabled Data Warehouse:

Today’s data warehouses are no longer confined to a select group of internal users. Under

: present conditions, corporations need to increase the productivity of all the members in

. the corporation’s value chain. Useful information from the corporate data warehouse

~ must be provided not only to the employees but also to customers, suppliers, and all other '
| business partners. This new delivery method through the web helps the partners to
~retrieve, analyze, and share information from the company’s data warehouse. When one

_ web-enables the data warehouse, from the point of view of the users, the key
requirements are: self-service data access, interactive analysis, high availability and

_ performance, zero-administration client (thin client technology such as Java applets),

: tight security, and unified metadata. Bringing the Web to the warehouse essentially - |

involves capturing the clickstream of all the visitors to your company’s Web site and
performing all the traditional data warehousing functions. : _
The company’s effort now involves extraction, transformation, and loading of the
clickstream data to the Webhouse repository. Clickstream data tracks how people
proceeded through the company’s Web site, what triggers purchases, what attracts
people, and what makes them come back.

' b) Arbor Essbase Web:

' ‘The Arbor Essbase Web Gateway is used to develop and deploy intranet and internet
based Web-enabled applications such as ad-hoc analysis, management reporting,

‘ enterprise information systems, budgeting, sales forecasting. Essbase allows corporations

‘ to deliver OLAP applications directly from operational systems, or within an overall data
warehousing architecture. Standard Web browsers can be used to access OLAP
applications developed using the Essbase Web Gateway.

Based upon a true, client/server architecture, Essbase supports multi-user read and write

, access, large-scale data capacity, robust analytical calculations, flexible data navigation
apd consistent, rapid response times. The Essbase server's open architecture supports
%llrgct data access using standard spreadsheets or leading third-party query, reporting and

tool.
¢) Automatic Classification of Web Documents: :
:n the automatic classification of Web documents, each document is assigned a class
| E;bel.from a set of predefined topic categories, based on a set of examples of pre-
Classified documents. For example, Yahoo's taxonomy and its associated documents can -
| DWM-69
