DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING ‘
The SNA structure is made up of node entities, such as humans. and ties, such as ‘
relationships. The gdvent of modern thought and computing facilitated a gradual
evolution of the social networking concept in the form of highly complex, graph-based
networks Wlth_maHY_tYPCS of nodes and ties, These networks are the key ;o procedures
and initiatives involving problem solving, administration and operations. ‘
' 3. What is distributed data mining? [MODEL QUESTION]
Answer: A
This type of data mining is gaining popularity as it involves analyzing the information
stored in different company locations or at different organizations. Highly sophisticated
algorithms are used to extract data from different locations and provide detailed insights
" to aid decision making.
. 4. What are recent trends in data mining? [MODEL QUESTION]
Answer: :
| Trends in Data Mining
Data mining concepts are still evolving and here are the latest trends that we get to see
in this field —
« Application Exploration.
o Scalable and interactive data mining methods. '
. o Integration of data mining with database systems, data warehouse systems and
web database systems. ’ : ,
« Standardization of data mining query language. -
j » Visual data mining. :
. o New methods for mining complex types of data. -
» Biological data mining. : :
| o Data mining and software engineering,.
* Web mining.
 Distributed data mining. ‘
, » Real time data mining.
i » Multi database data mining.
¢ Privacy protection and information security in data mining.
1. Explain the concept of distributed data warehouse. List some of its advantages
and disadvantages. [MODEL QUESTION]
Answer; i .
A distributed data warehouse is just like the name if implies. That is, the data are shared
::::roestf multiple data repositories, for the purpose of OLAP and where each data
‘ Warehouse may belong to one or more organization. It cgns.lsts of many local dgta
'. COversouses with one centr_allzed global data warehouse. Plstrlbuted data warehousu}g
Separatei complete enterprise data warehouse but have tiny data stores that are built
y. These data stores are connected physically over a network to provide users
DWM-73
