- DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA
6. What are data mining primitives?
Answer: [MODEL QUESTION]
Data mining primitives
‘ project __, attribute pre.
weighing processing
10N —— 5 knn join k- nearest
, neighbor
standard neural :
networks
Data mining Seph clustering » n table Data mining
primitives on , classifier scan algorithm . :
SQL association systems
select blgck whitg .
] P \ association >
rules
) cluster decision "
split 4’//: froes i e :
count by group functional i
functional / dependencies
dependencies '
Fig: Data mining primitives in SQL
Contrary to current belief, data mining is first and foremost a server technology. Until
~ recently, most data mining tools operated on flat files and in-memory databases. With the
shift of attention to larger databases, the need for implementing data mining algorithms
on top of relational databases has been recognized. However, current relational ,
. technology, with its emphasis on efficient updates and exact identification of records, is
’ ill-suited to the support of data mining algorithms.
’ Data mining algorithms require:
o efficient sampling methods ' .
| e storage of intermediate results during execution of queries ;
* capacity to handle large amounts of data - .
» geometric indexes that allow users to search in the neighborhood of record and
, bit-mapped operations. . o
Data mining is supported by client/server technology, with the server.technolo_gy being o
great importance when working with large databases. All these functions can in prmcu;:e
be realized on top of existing implementations, as they are based on generalizations of the :
, Same mathematical structure, that is, first-order logic and algebra. G
Can these ideas be brought into a general framework for the revnslon.o_f the re ‘?1 ;S ¥
mode]? Following figure describes a number of fundamental data mining edro'mtlo
relation to SQL primitives. In general, data mining routines can be divided into four
groups: ) |
. b it i values into :
‘ L Pre-processing: Routines in this group take samples, QOHfPfeSS . ; (that s, k"
1 clusters, and code tables into appropriate input formats f“’ T e
