POPULAR PUBLICATIONS B
> MODEL QUESTIAs
3. What is Web Structure Mining? ' L . gl
Answer: : ' . . (i
Web structure mining is the application c?f discovering structur:‘:)cl LllfO:":t;lon Tom
web. The structure of the web graph consists of web pages as NOTES, anc Ayperiinkey
' : ‘ine basically shows the structured summan.
edges connecting related pages. Structure mining : d Summa,
i e S .o nchip between web pages linked by informgg.
of a particular website. It identifies relationship o e Matig
or direct link connection. To determine the connection O comm
websites, Web structure mining can be very useful. - o
Long Answer Type Questions :QJ'
1. Discuss about mining multimedia data on the web. [MODEL QUESTY ., ‘
Answer: : ¢ mulsimedia infa 7
Multimedia data mining refers to the analysis of large amounts of mu timedia .v.‘_f-_ 0
in order to find patterns or statistical relationships. Once data is collfac?ed, computer
programs are used to analyze it and look for meaningful connections. Thl.s. info ation i
often used by governments to improve social systems. It can also be used in market;
discover consumer habits. i
Multimedia data mining requires the collection of huge amounts of data. The sampl‘e
is important when analyzing data because predicted trends and patterns are more likely te
be inaccurate with a smaller sample. This data can be collected from a number of
, different media, including videos, sound files, and images. Some experts also consider
l A spatial data and text to be multimedia. Information from one or more of these media i
, the focus of data collection.
| Whereas an analysis of numerical data can be straightforward, multimedia data analysis
requires sophisticated computer programs which can turn it into useful numerical data
There are a number of computer programs available that make sense of the info ui
gathered from multimedia data mining. These computer programs are used to search for
relationships that may not be apparent or logically obvious. B
_When multimedia‘is mined for information, one of the most common uses for this
information is to anticipate behavior patterns or trends. Information can be divided into
classes as well, which allows different groups, such as men and women or Sundays anc
Mlon_days,. to be? analyzed separately. Data can be clustered, or grouped by u,,;‘\_;f;'
::( :;gxl]:hlp, which can help track consumer affinity for a certain brand over
Vhf"l:;m;di; data mining has a number of uses in today’s society. An example of thi
: ould be the us . : My
S 1S 1 Jols . . ra
T e i} reets, expanding exnstlr!g streets, or diverting tratt
ganizations and city planners can use the inf . ffic flo
more smoothly and quickly 5¢ the Information to help tra
While the term'data minj | . il
n * I 4 LR
for & long time, Groceryg ;:orr eelsat“f'ely new, the practice of mining data has been arou
censumer behavior by collectine ¢ or example, have long used data mining to U
: y collecting data from their regi : i
sales information can be . _ egisters. The numerical data re iny
Y @ computer program to learn what people are bt
DWM-68 :
