POPULAR PUBLICATIONS : L
e) WUM: : ' i tions can be carried out over the Webhag
speed with which business transac : . i .
I::neisi:; ddripving force in the rapid growﬂ.n of electronic c;mr?f'?EZit fe%e(;“ﬁ?:x}'_.rg 8
commerce activity that involves the end user 18 u’ndt?rggm% ;‘1 ougsr; clicks has il ht n‘r 8
ability to track users' browsing behavior dowrtl) t?olrr;dll\fcl isanow ocsibleong vendof‘ﬁ' 3
n ever betore. :
vendor and end customer closer ;hafor . dividual customers at a massive scale, 3
personalize his product messag customization. The scenario described |
phenomenon that is being referred to as mass o & mining (WUM), which is the i
above is one of many possible applications of Web : sag f usnge patterns from WM
process of applying data mining techniques to the c.hS:COVCg’ s associated it Weh, -
data, targeted towards various applications. Data mining erforts e. content mining o
called Web mining, can be broadly divided into three classes, 1.€. ll&agmr 5
mining, and structure mining. . e
. -
24.5 builds decision trees from a set of training datf«.l in the saTe Wlay ;5 1D3, lt{s:llrge:e A
concept of information entropy. The training data. is a §et § = {8l 51,- )22 a dy a
} classified samples. Each sample si consists of a p-dlmensmnal vector (x1,1, oL ...,)fp,l)! ;—"
where the xj represent attributes or features of the sample, as well as the class in which st
falls. , : "
At each node of the tree, C4.5 chooses the attribute of the data that most fef'fectlv-ely §pl§s i
its set of samples into subsets enriched in one class or the other. Tl_le‘splltt}ng criterionis
" the normalized information gain (difference in entropy). The attribute with tl}e highest
normalized information gain is chosen to make the decision. The C4.5 algorithm then
recurs on the smailer sublists. ' .
This algorithm has a few base cases: '
e All the samples in the list belong to the same class. When this happens, it simply
creates a leaf node for the decision tree saying to choose that class. : 14 :
e None of the features provide any information gain. In this case, C4.5 creates '
decision node higher up the tree using the expected value of the class. )
° Instancie of previously-unseen class encountered. Again, C4.5 creates a decision
EOS node higher up the tree using the expected value. | vt
Pseudocode | | ‘1
In pseudocode, the general algorithm for building decision trees is: '
1. Check for base cases ‘ . _ 5o
2. For each attribute a 0 AR
* Find the normalized infi ' " " 4l
3. Leta_best be the attribute vvoifcrl??ltlle:ofrlligﬁg}stritm frc;{n sp! g H
4. Create a decision node that splits on a_best S o %
5. Recur on the sublists obtaj STitt: e
ained : wor
children of node by splitting on a_best, and add those ne ’ j‘
: DWM-62 o
