4. State the differences between Data Mart & Warehouse. [WBUT 2010, 2015]
Answer: - , .
A data warehouse has a structure which is separate from a data mart, even tl‘lm@ ey
may look similar. Because of this, it is difﬁculttq coordinate the data across r ult ;
departments. Each department will have its own view of how a data mart shou.dq ook,
The data mart that they use will be specific to them. In 'contrast, a data warehouse is
designed around the organization as a whole. Instead of being owned by one departme; .,
a data warehouse will generally be owned by the entire company. While ,;
contained in data warehouses are granular, the information contained in data marts is n *
ve anular at all. ; i
Argtﬁrer thing that separates data warehouses from d_ata marts is that data warehous "i*
contain larger amounts of information. The information that is helq by data marts e
often summarized. Data warehouses will not contain infonnatlop that 1s b_lased on the p
of the department. Instead, it will demonstrate the infom'xatmn t.hat is analyzed an
processed by the organization. Much of the information that is he!d in data warehouses is 2
historical in nature, and they are designed to process this information.
. 5. When is a Data Mart appropriate? [WBUT m :
Answer: : : : ~ M
Data Marts are created for: : e
' a) Speeding up queries by reducing the volume of data to be scanned Sl
b) Structuring data in a form suitable for user access tools i
' ¢) Partitioning data to impose access control strategies ) 1A
. d) Segmenting data into different hardware platforms. o
Data marts should not be used in other cases as the operational costs of data marting can
be high and once a strategy in place, it can be difficult to change it without incurring
substantial cost. e
6. What is sequence mining? [WBUT 2011]
Answer: ’ _ o
Sequence mining is a type of structured data mining in which the database ar
administrator look for sequences or trends in the data. This data mining is split into two
fields. Itemset sequence mining typically is used in marketing, and string sequence
mining is used in biology research. Sequence mining is different from regular trend
: mining, because the data are more specific, which makes building an effective databa e
difficult for database designers, and it can sometimes go awry if the sequence is an)
different from the common sequence. ' : e
7. Differenfnate among Enterprise Warehouse, Data mart and Virtual warehouse.
' Answer: : S
Enterprise warehouse - o tha § . 4 '
r ki house - collects all of the mfomguonm subjects spanning the
