J—
DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING
o scan database to collect support count for each candidate sequence
o generate candidate length-(k+1) sequences from length-k frequent sequences
using Apriori
. repeat until no frequent sequence or no candidate can be found
Jts major strength.: Candidate pr.uning by Apriori : ' :
_ GPADE (Sequential Pattern Discovery using Equivalent Class) is a vertical forma
sequential pattern mining method as outlined below: :
« A sequence database is mapped to a large set of
' o Item: <SID, EID>
o Sequential pattern mining is performed by h
o growing the subsequences (patterns) one item at a time by Apriori candidate
generation . ;
‘ SPADE uses only simple temporal join operation on id-lists. As the length of a frequent
' sequence increases, the size of its id-list decreases, resulting in very fast joins. ;
, No complicated hash-tree structure is used, and no overhead of generating and searching
of subsequences is incurred. These structures typically have very poor locality. On the
g other hand SPADE has excellent locality, since a join requires only a linear scan of two
lists.
| As the minimum support is lowered, more and larger frequent sequences are found. GSP
makes a complete dataset scan for each iteration. SPADE on the other hand restricts itself
to usually only three scans. It thus cuts down the 1/O costs. : '
: d) Decision tree construction with presorting:
,‘ SLIQ (Supervised Learning in Quest) developed by IBM's Quest project team, i1s a
| decision tree classifier designed to classify large training data. It uses a pre-sorting
| technique in the tree-growth phase. This helps avoid costly sorting at each node. SLIQ '
_ keeps a separate sorted list for each continuous attribute and a separate list called class
list. An entry in the class list corresponds to a data item, and has a class label and name of
] the.node it belongs in the decision tree. An entry in the sorted attribute list has an
attribute value and the index of data item in the class list. SLIQ grows the decision tree in
_ breadth-first manner. For each attribute, it scans the corresponding sorted list and
. Calt‘:u.lates entropy values of each distinct values of all the nodes in the frontier of the
dec_lsmn tree simultaneously. After the entropy values have been calculated for each
’ altribute, one attribute is chosen for a split for each nodes in the current frontier, and they
| ;reerfzgaréded to have a new f.rontier. Then one more scan of the sorted attribute list is
While Si | tohupdate th-e class.llst for the new nodes. .
P infoQ apdles disk-resident data that are tqo large to ﬁ.t in memory, it still requires
' ik Ofninatl_on to stay me_mory-remdgnt .Wthh grows in dlfefzt proportion to the
Version Caller:iplsl;) records, putting a hardjllmlt on. the. size of training data. In a newer
| stictions 1 RINT (Scalable Parallelizable Induction of decision Trees) the memory
i ve been removed.
DWM-61
