cardholder may be different in each. Software must translate data from one ystem
another and select the address most recently entered. ; ey
A hotly debated technical issue is whether it is better 10 S€t Up @ relational database
structure or a multidimensional one. In a relational structure, data is stored in ta les,
permitting ad hoc queries. In a multidimensional structure, on the other hand, 15 of
cubes are arranged in arrays, with subsets created accorfllflg to category. Whi
multidimensional structures facilitate multidimensional data mining, !ehuond tructures
thus far have performed better in client/server environments. And, with the explosion of
the Internet, the world is becoming one big client/server environment. g .

" Finally, there is the issue of cost. While system hardware costs have dre pped
dramatically within the past five years, data mining and'data warehousing ‘3“‘! W > &
reinforcing. The more powerful the data mining queries, the greater the u.tlllty of the
information being gleaned from the data, and the greater the pressure to increase the
amount of data being collected and maintained, which increases the pressure for
more powerful data mining queries. This increases pressure for larger, faster systems,
which are more expensive. T
d) Text mining: ) e
Text Mining is the discovery by computer of new, previously unknown information, by
automatically extracting information from different written resources. A key element is
the linking together of the extracted information together to form new facts or new
hypotheses to be explored further by more conventional means of experimentation.

' text mining, the goal is to discover heretofore unknown information, something that no
one yet knows and so could not have yet written down. - o
The difference between regular data mining and text mining is that in text mining the
patterns are extracted from natural language text rather than from structured databases o .
facts. Databases are designed for programs to process automatically; text is written for
people to read. We do not have programs that can "read" text and will not have such for

 the forseeable future. Many researchers think it will require a full simulation of how the

mind works before we can write programs that read the way people do. S
¢) DBMS vis-a-vis Data Mining: | i
DBMS and data mining answer different queries. Data mining helps in predicting future
whereas DBMS gives reports. _ "
Example DBMS Reports s o

* Last months sales for each service type L

. Sa'lles per service grouped by customer sex or age bracket i

*  Listof customers who lapsed their policy i
Questions answered using Data Mining S

e What characte.ristics do customers that lapse their policy have in common

. l&c;rvlv do they differ from customers who renew their policy? _

ich motor insurance policy holders would be potential customers for
~ House Content Insurance policy? ol i R
