POPULAR PUBLICATIONS --"-f.:_l.l :
1. In data warehouse technology explain ROLAP, MOLAP and HOLAP techniqye,
of implementing a multidimensional view(r).R WBUT 2
Compare between HOLAP, ROLAP and MOLAP. [WBUT 2013
ﬁ:ls::ieornal OLAP (ROLAP) servers: These are the intermediate servers that """
between a relational back-end server and client front-end tools. They use a relm or
extended-relational DBMS to store and manage wareho-USﬁf da.ta, and OLAP midd Cware
to support missing pieces. ROLAP servers include optimization for each DBMS
end, implementation of aggregation navigation logic, and additional tools and ser
ROLAP technology tends to have greater scalability than MOLAP technolog.y.. B
Multidimensional OLAP (MOLAP) servers: These servers support _multldlm sional
views of data through array-based multidimensional storage engines. They map
multidimensional views directly to data cube array structures. For example,
Arbor is a MOLAP server. The advantage of using a data cube is that it allows
indexing to precomputed summarized data. Notice that with multidimensional data
stores, the storage utilization may be low if the data set is sparse. In such cases, sparse
matrix compression techniques should be explored. Many OLAP servers adopt a
level storage representation to handle sparse and dense data sets: the dense subcubes are
identified and stored as array structures, while the sparse subcubes employ compressior
technology for efficient storage utilization. b
Hybrid OLAP (HOLAP) servers: The hybrid OLAP approach combines ROLAP an
MOLAP technology, benefiting from the greater scalability of ROLAP and the faster
| computation of MOLAP. For example, a HOLAP server may allow large volumes of
detail data to be stored in a relational database, while aggregations are kept in a separate
MOLAP store. The Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 OLAP Services supports a hybrid G "‘KY,‘
. server. < ol
2. a) Why do we need to have separate Data Warehouse for OLAP applications?
b) Start.mg with_ the base cuboid [day, item, branch] what specific OLAP operations
(e.g. slice fon: time = ‘year’) should be performed in order to list the total sales ©
each branch in the year 20087 , [WBUT 2010]
Answer: : ol
- 4) A major reason for using a data warehouse in OLAP is 1o help promote the high
perfoml‘ance of both systems. An operational database is designed and tuned from know
tasks and workloads, such as indexing and hashi i i ~arching fi
particular records, and optimizing o lINg using primary keys, searching I
oo e lp imizing “canned" queries. On the other hand, data warehous
are often complex. They involve the computation of large groups of da
summarized levels, and may require the use of special dat izati cess,
implementation methods based on multidi i i A, OTgARLZACININES M,' e
operational databases would i Ao six Riasies Processing OLAR ques
uld substantially degrade the performance of oper ational task
‘ DWM-52 e
