’ ”
DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING

Answer:
1* Part: i d

‘ Clustering is a data mining (machine learning) technique used to place data elements into
clated groups w1th_out advance knowledge of the group definitions.
There are two main types of clustering techniques, those that create a hierarchy of
clusters and non-hierarchy of clusters. The hierarchical clustering techniques create a
hierarchy of clusters from small to big. With a hierarchy of clusters defined it is possible

| to choose the number of clusters that are desired. At the extreme it is possible to have as
many clusters as there are records in the database. In this case the records within the
cluster are optimally similar to each other (since there is only one) and certainly different :
from the other clusters. The advantage of hierarchical clustering methods is that they

| allow the end user to choose from either many clusters or only a few.
9% Part:
Since, the process of grouping a set of physical or abstract objects into classes of similar

' objects is clustering, similarity metric is important here because it is used for outlier
detection. The clustering algorithm which is main memory based can operate only on the

- following two data structures namely,

a) Data Matrix .

: b) Dissimilarity Matrix '

_ So it is difficult to handle categorical data.
In partition clustering, every data sample is initially assigned to a cluster in some

' (possibly random) way. Samples are then iteratively transferred from cluster to cluster
until some criterion function is minimized. Once the process is complete, the samples
will have been partitioned into separate compact clusters. Examples of partition
clustering methods are k-means and Lloyd's method. )
In hierarchical clustering, each sample is initially considered a member of its own cluster,
after which clusters are recursively combined in pairs according to some predetermined
condition until eventually every point belongs to a single cluster. The resulting
hierarchical structure may be represented by a binary tree or "dendrogram", from which
the desired clusters may be extracted. Examples of hierarchical clustering methods are
the single-link, Ward's, centroid, complete-link, group average, median, and parametric
Lance Williams methods. ‘
b) Describe the working of the PAM algorithm. Compare its performance with
CLARA and CLARANS. [WBUT 2009]
Answer: |

3 ;r::siEANcll k-medoids cluste_:ring glgorithm, for example, evalu.ate_s a set of k objects
e nosw lto be representative objects (_medonds) of. B cluste.rs \a./lt.hm T object§ sych that
- ilsletected objects are.cluste‘red with the .medmd to which it is the most Slml‘lar (ie.
of the mede{lgs of the provided dlst_ance .metn.c). The process operates by swapping one
“On-selectegl s with one of the objects iteratively such that the total distance between
follows. objects and their medoid is reduced. The algorithm can be depicted as '

' DWM-27
