DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING 1
. Decision tree models are extremely robust to the effect of outliers. This is so because
‘ the models are constructed in a frequency-based technique where one is counting the
instances in a split. Outliers that occur in the independent variables do not affect the
tree growing process because the values used to split each node are not likely to be
on the outlier values. Outliers in the dependent variable go into their own nodes and
: do not affect the rest of tree.
: . Tree models offer several ways of dealing with missing values that can often 1
, minimize or eliminate the effect of such values on model performance. In many other
' methods the whole set of instances with missing values would be omitted from
| analysis. This advantage is present in both the when training the tree model or when
,' applying the model on new data for class prediction.
pisadvantages of Decision Tree Models: '
Decision trees are indeed powerful data mining tools, but they are not perfect and are
; suited to certain types of problems. The main weaknesses in decision tree modeling are
listed below:
. Classification trees can be unstable and small variations in the data (such as that
made by randomization) can cause very different looking trees being generated. This
- is especially so in cases where the goodness of splits for the different variables are
close to each other in value. In this case, a small variation in the data is enough to
influence the picking of on split over another.
o Many of these problems are dealt with by using stratified sampling when creating -
testing and training datasets. In this case, the training and testing datasets have -
the same class distribution. ,
o Such problems are also a symptom of a dataset that is too small. In such cases, it
is important to use the entire dataset to train and test the model. This is the idea '
behind the cross-validation technique. Since the final model is built on the whole
dataset, randomization of this same data will not cause too much instability.
« Some the tree models generated may be very large and complex. This can make the
model difficult to interpret, understand or justify.
e Tree models really shine when applied to classification problems; unfortunately, they
are not very good at estimation tasks(as in regression), i.e. having numerical
dependent variable.
« Decision tree models are computationally expensive to train ,
j ¢) Most algorithms that have been developed for learning decision trees are variations on t
‘ a core algorithm that employs a top-down, greedy search through the space of possible
:. S:cmon trees. Decision tree programs construct a decision tree T from a set of training
'. ses.
E Constructing Decision Tree using ID3’
function ID3 ‘
Input: (R: a set of non-target attributes,
C: the target attribute,
S: a training set) returns a decision tree; ,
, DWM-37 _
