S ised vs. unsupervised learning: : _ _ 'I
zup‘:rlr)'?i:cl:i: So, if yog are training your machine lea.mmg.tasbt f‘l’)‘i CVery Input wigp
corresponding target, 1t1s - loorithm seeks's o target
for any new input after sufficient training. Your learning a §°_ gt ﬂm‘} tion
inputs' to the respective targets. If the targets are expfessse lirsl scontinuo uies’itn Is ca _ '
classification problem. Alternatively, if the target spa M ed
regression problem. ‘ % . . learning task only N 8
Unsupervised: Contrary, if you are training your maghme i t% find thz
inputs, it is called unsupervised learning, which ‘Wl” rt:Zn? Snsupel'ViS . -:»U“Ct}n-.
relationships between different inputs. Most lmiz: id will be able topus s
clustering, which will create different cluster of inputs a put any n
input in appropriate cluster. e
8. What is sequential pattern mining in data stream? [MODEL QUES
Answer: : _
Sequential pattern mining is tryiqg to find rf:latlonshlps between occurrences o
sequential events, to find if there exists ar.ly.SpeCl.ﬁC order of the occurrences. 3_;1.7
find the sequential patterns of specific individual items also we can find the sequential
patterns across different items. i
Application: - <
« Sequential pattern mining is widely used in analyzing of DNA sequence. ©
« Sequential pattern can be widely used in different areas, such as mining user
access patterns for the web sites, using the history of symptoms to predict certain
’ kind of disease, also by using sequential pattern mining, the retailers can make
' the inventory control more efficient. .
Challenges on Sequential pattern mining: il F
e A hu.ge.: number of possible sequential patterns are hidden in databases. -;
e A mining algorithm should find the complete set of patterns, be highly efficien
scalable. o
9. What is frequent pattern mining in data strea -3
Answer: [MODEL QUE
equent Pattern Mining (AKA Association Rule Mining) is an analytical process th
finds frequent patterns, associations, or | Lo e
: ) » Or causal structures from data sets found in varl
kinds of databases such as relational datab '
B0 i o s s cirt lal databases, transactional databases, and other &
to predict the occurrence of :;1;:5;[;_100“?{ this process aims to find the.fules (SN
iy item based on the occurrence of other items i
Let’s look at an example of F . o L
5 requent Pattern Mini : . pri
the terminology used in this type of analysi Ml\r;;ng_ First, we will want to unders
factors used in this technique, for this examyl 's. While there are numerous metiS
Support and Confidence. ple, we will only consider two factors na
Support: The su - S0
: pport of a rule x -> } e
defined as the proportion of tra ¥ (where x and y are each items/events @
p ol transactions in the data set whi tai item s
| ich contain the item §
DWM64 L "“0 ,." -“’
