| 'DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING
,. Explain the concept of distributed data mining. [MODEL QUESTION]
Answer: i
| Traditional warehouse-based architectures for data mining suppose to have centralized
| data repository. Such a c.cntralized approach is fundamentally inappropriate for most of
-the distributed and ubiquitous data mining applications. In fact, the long response time,
jack of proper use of distributed resource, and the fundamental characteristic of
centralized data mining algorithms do not work well in distributed environments. A
.. calable solution for distributed applications calls for distributed processing of data, '
. controlled by the available resources and human factors. For example, let us suppose an :
ad hoc wireless sensor network where the different sensor nodes are monitoring some
- rime-critical events. Central collection of data from every sensor node may create traffic
over the limited bandwidth wireless channels and this may also drain a log of power from
the devices. A distributed architecture for data mining is likely aimed to reduce the
communication load and also to reduce the battery power more evenly across the
’ different nodes in the sensor network. -
One can easily imagine similar needs for distributed computation of data mining
‘ primitives in ad hoc wireless networks of mobile devices like PDAs, celiphones and
wearable computers. The wireless domain is not the only example. In fact, most of the
applications that deal with time-critical distributed data are likely to benefit by paying
careful attention to the distributed resources for computation, storage, and the cost of
: communication. As an other example, let us' consider the World Wide Webs: it contains :
distributed data and computing resources. An increasing number of databases (e.g., X
weather databases, oceanographic data, etc.) and data streams (e.g., financial data,
: emerging disease information, etc.) are currently made on-line, and many of them change
1 frequently. It is easy to think of many applications that require regular monitoring of
these diverse and distributed sources of data. A distributed approach to analyze this data
is likely to be more scalable and practical particularly when the application involves a
- large number of data sites. Hence, in this case we need data mining architectures that pay
; careful attention to the distribution of data, computing and communication, in order to
" access and use them in a near optimal fashion. Distributed Data Mining (sometimes
\ referred by the acronym DDM) consider data mining in this broader context. ‘
D_DM may also be useful in environments with multiple compute nodes connect over
high-speed networks. Even if the data can be quickly centralized using the relatively fast
‘ network, proper balancing of computational load among a cluster of nodes may require a '
dlstnb_uted approach. The privacy issue is playing an increasingly important role in the
| E:fl:SgMg data mining applications. For example, let us suppose a consortium of different
: i collaborating for detecting frauds. !f a antrallzed .solutlon was adopted, all the
mininmm every bank should pe collected in a S{ngl_e location, to be processed by a data
‘ < g fujrysltem' Never_theless, in such a case a Distributed Data Mmmg‘sys_ten} should be
Withot ea ;‘echr}ologlcal choice: both it is able to lean? models from dlstrlbuteq data
_ fraud by Xc anging the raw data between different repository, ar}d it allows detection of
é Preserving the privacy of every bank’s customer transaction data.
DWM-75 i .
