DATA WAREHOQUSING AND DATA MINING
‘ 3. Why Class Imbalance is a problem? , [MODEL QUESTION]
ARG - . .
Most machine learning algorithms and works best when the number of instances of each
classes are roughly equa.l, When the number of instances of one class far exceeds the
j other, problems arise. This is best illustrated below with an example. ‘
Given a dataset pf transaction data, we would like to find out which are fraudulent and
which are genuine ones. Now, it is highly cost to the e-commerce company if a
fraudulent transaction goes through as this impacts our customers trust in us, and costs us

: money. SO we want to catch as many fraudulent transactions as possible.

' If there is a dataset consisting of 10000 genuine and 10 fraudulent transactions, the
classifier will tend to classify fraudulent transactions as genuine transactions. The reason

i can be easily explained by the numbers. Suppose the machine learning algorithm has two

? possibly outputs as follows:

' 1. Model 1 classified 7 out of 10 fraudulent transactions as genuine transactions and

10 out of 10000 genuine transactions as fraudulent transactions.
2. Model 2 classified 2 out of 10 fraudulent transactions as genuine transactions and
100 out of 10000 genuine transactions as fraudulent transactions.
If the classifier’s performance is determined by the number of mistakes, then clearly
Model 1 is better as it makes only a total of 17 mistakes while Model 2 made 102
mistakes. However, as we want to minimize the number of fraudulent transactions
happening, we should pick Model 2 instead which only made 2 mistakes classifying the
fraudulent transactions. Of course, this could come at the expense of more genuine
transactions being classified as fraudulent transactions, but will be a cost we can bear for
now. Anyhow, a general machine learning algorithm will just pick Model 1 than Model
2, which is a problem. In practice, this means we will let a lot of fraudulent transactions

_ go through although we could have stopped them by using Model 2. This translates to
unhappy customers and money lost for the company.

4. What do you understand by the term ‘Graph Mining’? [MODEL QUESTION]

- Answer: J ‘

' Graphs become increasingly important in modeling complicated structures, such as
circuits, images, chemical compounds, protein structures, biological networks, social
networks, the Web, workflows, and XML documents. Many graph search algorithms

' have been developed in chemical informatics, computer vision, video indexing, and text

' retrieval. With the increasing demand on the analysis of large amounts of structured data,

. graph mining has become an active and important theme in data mining. Among the

. vario-us kinds of graph patterns, frequent substructures are the very basic patterns that can

: be discovered in a collection of graphs. They are useful for characterizing graph sets,
dlscrm_linating different groups of graphs, classifying and clustering graphs, building

, i%:/ph Indices, and facilitating similarity search in graph databases. Recent studies have

cloped several graph mining methods and applied them to the discovery of interesting
| Patterns in varigys applications. |
DWM-77
