i
POPULAR PUBLICATIONS
equation for Gain is just the entropy of the original cczlllec?lorla?t r?gﬂt;hj\ Seﬁc\)nd term is
the expected value of the entropy after S is partitione us'ff'gh sosal il e CXpecteq
entropy -described by this second term is simply the sum of the en ropies of t_.each Subs
Sv, weighted by the fraction of examples [S,|/|S| that belong to S,. Gain (S,A) is therefore
the expected reduction in entropy caused by knowing the value of attribute A. Put angpg, ¥
i i i i rovided about the target attribute value, given
way, Gain(S,A) is the information p _ ‘ ber of bi the s
value of some other attribute A. The value of Gain(S,A) is the number of bits saved Whﬂn
encoding the target value of an arbitrary member of S, by knowing the value of attribqu
A decision tree can be constructed top-down using the information gain in the foll. Wi .
way: i
1. begin at the root node ' . P i
2. determine the attribute with the highest information gain which is not already
used as an ancestor node . &
3. add a child node for each possible value of that attribute e
4. attach all examples to the child node where the attribute values of the examples .
are identical to the attribute value attached to the node :
5. .if all examples attached to the child node can be classified uniquely add that g
classification to that node and mark it as leaf node 3
6. go back to step two if there are unused attributes left, otherwise add the
. classification of most of the examples attached to the child node T
b) Advantages of Decision Tree model : ¥
' ¢ Decision tree methods tend to produce models that are easy to interpret. At each no s'-_."
terminal node, a decision is based upon just one predictor variable and this makes it
easy to follow. For example, to explain particular classification one need only look at
the series of simple decisions that led to it. The final tree model can in-fact be cast
into a set of rules one can follow to classify a given case. In comparison, general‘»_
linear models use linear combinations of variables that can be difficult to interpret or
explain.
* Tree models make no assumptions about the distribution of the underlying data and
- they are thus a non-parametric procedure. This. can be especially useful if the
- distribution of the data is indeed unknown, something that happens a lot in practice.
* Decision tree methods are easily able to handle both categorical and continue s
variables. i
* Decision tree methods have a built-in feature selection method that makes hem
iImmune to the presence of useless variables. Such variables are ignored and they do
no affect the tree building process. This is a common problem with over-parametized
. datasets. . o
: gi; g‘r‘;izl; :tfe :’ef)’ adf‘apt'at.rev_ealing comple.x ipteractions betwegn \Z:
S :a rren? can r::ontam d.lffe_rent combinations of variab-les and ﬂi@-_ v
et %p ore than once m. dlfferent pa.rts of the tree. This can IM L
€ can depend on another and in what specific context this dependency € iy
' DWM-36 | o
