DATA WAREHOUSING AND DATA MINING
ffice, but if
7. If we know exactly what information we need then...............would suU UT 2012]
) we vaguely know the possible patterns then..............are useful. ws
a) Data Warehouse, Data Mining techniques
b) DBMS Query, Data Mining techniques
' ¢) DBMS Query, Data Warehouse applications
d) Data Warehouse applications, Data Mining techniques :
| Answer: (b) i
4. Association analysis is used for (WBUT 2014]
a) transaction data analysis b) olap c) molap d) none of thesg
Answer: (a) ,
9. Which one is not a data mining task? [WBUT 2014, 2015]
a) indexing b) classification c) clustering d) regression |
‘ Answer: (a)
10. An example of hierarchical clustering algorithm is [WBUT 2014, 2018]
, a) clarans b) C4.5 c) average linkage d) rock ‘
- Answer: (d)
11. Which frequent pattern mining technique mines without candidate generation?
a) Partitioning b) Apriori [WBUT 2018]
¢) FP-growth d) Dynamic intensive counting
- Answer: (¢) .
1. What are the different methods of computing the best split? What are entropy
gain and gain ratio? [WBUT 2012]
Answer: :
A Various measures are available to determine which test condition provides the best split.
These are: -
— Gini Index
, — Entropy / Information Gain
— Classification Error
A measure used from Information Theory in the ID3 algorithm and many others used in
decision tree construction is that of Entropy. Informally, the entropy of a dataset can be
| f:onsidered to be how disordered it is. It has been shown that entropy is related to
. Information, in the sense that the higher the entropy, or uncertainty, of some data, then
the more information is required in order to completely describe that data. In building a
R deC}SlOn tree, we aim to decrease the entropy of the dataset until we reach leaf nodes at
, ?:’:‘:Ch point the subset that we are left with is pure, or has zero entropy and represents
Wsearr:;es all of one class (all instances have t}le same value for the t.arget a.ttribt.lte).
‘ o a;Sl_Jre the entropy of a 'dataset, 8, .w1th respect to one attribute, in this case the
ribute, with the following calculation:
. | DWM-49 ; . :
