POPULAR PUBLICATIONS
h) Backpropagation algontpm . [WBUT 201
i) Supervised vs. unsupervised learning i
Answer: : k-
_a) GSP algorithm: _ 1 od below: B
The GSP algorithm consists of two phases and 1s described 3
Phase 1: . i n i i
« Scan over the database to identify all the frequent items, 1.€-, 1-element sequm{l;_{
hase 2: ;
i ? aIterertively scan over the database to discover all frequent sequences. Each ite
' discovers all the sequences with the same length. -‘ 3 ;ﬂ;
+ In the iteration to generate all k-sequences T P
_ Generate the set of all candidate k-sequences, Ck, by joining two (k-1)-sequen ces
~ if only their first and last items are different : . s
_ Prune the candidate sequence if any of its k-1 contiguous subsequence is
frequent . A 4 o
_ Scan over the database to determine the support of the remaining cand
sequences | ;
' « Terminate when no more frequent sequences can be found -
e
- b) ROCK vs. CACTUS: | _ .
The ROCK (Robust Clustering using links) algorithm is based on the principle o
hierarchical clustering. First, a random sample of objects is chosen. These objects are
clustering to the desired number of clusters, and then the remaining objects are assigned
to the created clusters. The method uses a graph concept, whose main terms are neighbors
and links. A neighbor of a certain object is such an object to which similarity with the
investigated object is equal to or greater than a predefined threshold. A link between tw
objects is the number of common neighbors of these objects. The principle of the ROCI
4 methods lie§ in maximizatif)n of the function which takes into account both maximizatio
of sums of links for the objects from the same cluster, and minimization of sums of li s
for the objects from different clusters. e
Algorithm CACTUS (Categorical Clustering Using Summaries) is based on the idea ¢
the common occurrences of certain categories of different variables. If the differenc |
the number of occurrences for the categories vkt and vlu of the k-th and 1-th variable. an
the expected frequency (on the i : A o
5 . y ne assumption of uniform distribution in the frame of #
certain categories of the remaining variables, and the assumption of the independenc o
greater than a user-defined threshol : i
o i an P °t<_i, thei categories are strongly connected. ]
) : marization, ¢ : e T
 the candidates for clusters are chosen from w;:'St;nEg and verification. During luster
verification phase. , ich the final clusters are determ ai | r
¢) GSP vs. SPADE: | |
GSP (Generalized Sequential P i 2t ’
Initially, every item in DB is a candicza:tsezlfpl:r:;tghaigoﬂthm which is outlined below
. e for each level (i.e., sequences of length-k) do , : H ,‘ ‘
