distributed database is which of the following 2" A multiprocessor systom where two or more processors share the same
3 e - (MODEL QUESTION] primary memory Is callod e uplo(:‘ODEL QUESTION]
same S is used at each a) homogeneous y €O
et wedie ch location and data are not distributed o) tightly coupled d) all of these
I b) the same DBMS is used at each location and data are distributed across all Answer: (€)
X Rodes
" ¢) a dﬂﬂ:um DBMS is used at each location and data are not distributed Short Answer Type Questions
l d4 :“ Mnodu DBMS is used at each location and data are distributed across 1, What s Distributed Data Processing (DDP)? [MODEL QUESTION]
i Answer: (b) Answer: . - .

: Distributed data processing allows distribution of application programs and data among
. 15. Which of the followi interconnected sites (0 satisfy the information needs 9[ the organization. Depending onts
1 a) Replication mﬂ.:::':;' R ature of T;?::m muoﬂggf;‘.alﬁ:mm equirements, an organization may choose t0 centralize or decentralize its data processing
1 ¢) Locking transparenc systems.
| Answer: (¢) . S oa mesparency 1%1;;: are two types of Distributed Data Processing:

16. Distributed database system do not hel ODEL QUESTIO Centralized data processing:
A a) interconnection of existing dmmg i N In a centralized system, one machine controls all file access and updates. A centralized
[ b) incremental growth of the organization system permits a high level of control over application programs and data.
¢) reduction communication overhead of geographically ~distributed A centralized data processing system is useful when:
l transactions o All datais shared across application programs.
| d) reduction of the memory requirement of distributed data « Many end users need access (o the same data and also require the most current
Auswer: (¢) data available.
| ] ) «  Security has been established as the responsibility of the central site.
17. Top-downdapp:on_:h to the design of data distribution is applicable when « Large volumes of data are involved. In this case, centralized control can help
;; :t;’: 3 s o:tlj':)gn. :?:’g' fn:lm;:mch [MODEL QUESTION) ' handle the volume of data efficiently. .
¢) both of 3'9;? GEaKNG daabeess In o centralized data processing environment, more altention typically is given (o direct-
d) none of these access storage devices (that is, their cost and reliability) than to data transmission.
Answer: () The following illustration shows how one machine controls all file access and updates in
acentralized system.
18. Distributed Systems should [MODEL QUESTION]
a) meet prescribed time constraints b) aim better resource sharing e
¢) aim better system utilization d) aim low system overhead .
ost
Answer: (b) Machine H
19. What is data about data called? [MODEL QUESTION]
a) Metadata b) Data catalog ¢) Information d) Database
Answer: (a)
20. Which of the following features(s) Is (are) important aspects of a distributed
database? [MODEL QUESTION]
a) Distribution b) Logical correlation
¢) Distribution & logical correlation d) Disjointness
Answer: (¢)
. DDMS-4 DDMS-5
