Ml e y 4
'~ }? 5
k‘w:m Purticipant. Coondinator — Participunt. Coordinalor Purticipant the arguments are all co-related. Therefore, no special mechanism is need to han, <
’ h ) R A " ' is case. e B g
A . " l’!“:a, behavior - remote object. This is one of lhc cases in which the behavior and
I focvore | ™ e object to which it is applied are located at different sites. There are two ways of
: dealing with this case. One alternative is to move the ntfmo.tc object to lhe site vdm
\ the behavior is located. The second is to ship the behavior implementation to the site
- ' [T where the object is located.
: \ 3. Remote behavior - local object. This case is the reverse of case (2). B
BSIL <N N ; ‘m“" v 4: Remote function — remote argument. This case is the reverse of case (1). |
~ \\
umeout b Nested Transaction: . . . '
® (®) © An alternative transaction model is to permit a transaction (o include other transactions
with their own begin and commit points. Such transactions are mllcdd m;ed m-ctlu. A
i i h Ily called sub-transactions.
m: l:ho the difference between reliability and availability? What are the factors ﬂ\Ex:s"!clek {mmm T it
n? on? What s nested transaction? [MODEL QUESTION) in_transaction Reservation
Answer: D:‘I_
st . n
ll)' h? iabili ; Begin_transaction Airline
mr.: uted re.habthry lxotocols maintain the atomicity and durability properties by
@ ‘!::""8 thlll cither all of the actions of a transaction that is executing at different end. {Airline}
Slies - complete successfully (called commit Begin_transaction Hotel
successully (called abor), and espuom. o leeicmsion
(il ensuring that the modifications made to the database by commi ; end. (Hotel)
E ; y committed transactions ;
survive fmlurgs. The first requires atomic commit protocols (see Commit i - e
Protocols), while the second requires recovery protocols ;
end. {Car)
':vt:l'ilat:)hlllyle |s-s|mPly lhe.nme an item is able to operate (opmupg timetstandby time)as Nested transactions have received considerable interest as a more generalized transaction
iy ‘t’he t]me in service. It tells us how much the cash machine can yield if we feed it concept. The level of nesting is generally open, allowing subtractions themselves to have
X required inputs e.g. raw material, power etc. and remove the product as it is nested transactions. This generality is necessary to support application areas where
made. It can be defined as the i : : RN p
. can be defined as the percentage of time over a well-defined period that a system transactions are more complex than in traditional data processing.
or service is available for users. So, for example, if a system is said to have 99.999%,
or five nines, availability, this system must not be unavailable more than five minutes 3. Describe different types of failure in DDBMS. [MODEL QUESTION]
over the course of a year, Answer:
Communication Failures in Distributed Databases
‘ E Part: Recovery mechanisms for distributed transactions require understanding also the failures
Th :fgdon affecting allocation: ‘ which may occur in the communications between sites. In this section, we classify the
Ihe datz l!loaﬂm pmblem for object dmbam involves allocation of both methods and main types of communication failures, and state some basic assumptions on the
lasses. The method llloﬂflon pl?blem is tightly coupled to the class allocation problem. communication network which are relevant in this chapter.
icat ions o object-oriented databases invoke methods, the application of When a message is sent from site X to site ¥, we require from a communication network
flects the performance of applications. However, allocation of methods hat the following behavior:
nultiple classes at different sites is a problem that has been not yet been :k Xrreceives a positive acknowledgment afer a delay which is less then some maximum
cal object. This is the most straightforward case and is included 2. The message is delivered at Y in proper sequence with respect to other X-Y messages.
ine case. The behavior, the object to which it is to be applied, and 3. The message is correct.
- DDMS-78 DDMS-79
