l”“‘d""‘““l‘,‘ data processing; 3. Whatisthe difference between parallel database and aumu[::g g;t:m;m\
N a decentralize i chi '
varied needs of e:;fst:: B conlr'ol o RO o et Answer: : |
A d“‘“g:“”d system is useful when: ' [n a multi-database system, a transaction s initially cm;led a;d;]e sa\;;d It:uuus‘:c?ph?s i
* Datis primarily accessed at a 5 i iscase it : ( finally committed in the master database later when the ion
il o wlZem o us:(li .a single location. In this case, i is most efficient to s:ot:ab:acl egulhcre :ls part of the database synchronization process. The tentatively
* The update rate is high. In this case, distribution of the data across differen s; commilted transaction can exist in the system for an unlimited period of time. In other
;::uld thsit more eficient update operations, S words, the life cycle of the transaction is entirely different.
* Security has been established as a |oca| ibili
* Data s used in highly specializeq ways ;?pem:g.':y ' A parallel database system is one that seeks to improve performance through parallel
i implementation of various operations such as loading data, building indexes, and
2. Write down the advantages and disadvantages of Distributed Database System? ;V‘J’“‘m"g i
ures
Answer: ot ) : o Machines are physically close to each other, .g., same server room
The advantages of Distributed Database Systems are: o Machines connects with dedicated high-speed LANs and switches
* Modular Developmeat: Modular development of a distibuted database implies that * Communication cost s assumed to be small
asystem can be expanded to new locations o units by adding new servers and data to o Can shared-memory, shared-disk, or shared-nothing architecture
the. €xisting setup and connecting them to the distributed system without interruption,
This type of expansion causes no interruptions in the functioning of distributed ina distributed database system, data is physically stored across several sites, and each
databascs 3 site is typically managed by a DBMS that is capable of running independently of the
* Reliability: Distributed databases offer greater reliability in contrast to centralized other sites.
databases. In case of a database failure in a centralized database, the system comes to Features
a complete stop. In a distributed database, the system functions even when failures o Machines can far from each other, e.g., in different continent
oceur, only delivering reduced performance until the issue is resolved. »  Can be connected using public-purpose network, e.g., Internet
¢ Lower C{)mmnie!ﬁon' C9st: Locally storing data'reduces communication costs for »  Communication cost and problems cannot be ignored
. mﬁmdpﬁm ;n distributed databases. Local data slorage is not possible in » o Usually shared-nothing architecture
¢ Better Response: Efficient data distribution in 4 distributed database system 4. What is distribution transparency? Explain different levels of distributed
provides a faster response when user requests are met locally. In centralized transparency. [MODEL QUESTION]
databases, user requests pass through the central machine, which processes all Answer:
requests. The result is an increase in response time, especially with a lot of queries. Distribution transparency provides high-level abstractions which hide rietwork location
behind an impenetrable wall. In such a system, a process can't know where it is
The Disadvantages of Distributed Database Systems are; executing, even when it wants and needs to know.
- Costly Software: Ensuring data transparency and coordination across multiple sites Distribution Transparency for Read-Only Applications are:
‘often requires using expensive software in a distributed database system. Fragmentation transparency - reference to global relation as if the DB is not distributed
Large Overhead: Many operations on multiple sites require numerous calculations Location transparency - user accesses fragments ignoring where they are
and constant synchronization when database replication is used, causing a lot of Local Mapping transparency - refers to objects using names independent from local
cessing overhead. systems but has to specify sites of the objects, mapping of application into functions used
Integrity: A possible issue when using database replication is data integity, by the local DBMS
compromised by updating data at multiple sites. Naming transparency - items in a database must have a unique name, but users don't
¥ Data Distribution: Responsiveness to user requests largely depends on need to worry about it.
distribution. That means responsiveness can be reduced if data is ot
ibuted across multiple sites.
) DDMS-6 DDMS-7
