\‘ /AR PUBLICATIONS :
+ Explain the cold starts and warm starts, DISTRIBUTED DAT.
nswer: [MODEL QUES lizod database systom
g .mmmmmanmmmwmaumz
Cold reMES e fnlght {ike to mov to a distributed database environment. Outline the advantages
\fler a fatal failure of the system, the actual consis and disadvantages of sucha decision. [MODEL QUESTION]
archived older consistent state i state of the DBMS i wer:
g is to be recovered. As a D) is lost. An Ans .
' state, a site cannot change their state i . fm: DBMS has global consist The two systems are shown in the diagram below. —
ke cold st el e aer s st ke Se]
Local failure - global recovery cold restart,
>
Consistent global state: ¢ o) Computer
For each transaction T, the state contai = [sict ]
3 ’ contains
T at any site (T is contained i tl.'e“"""_‘Q‘!’elfﬂll“ed")'lllsubtransletions Ex
in the global state), or it does § of Q
it does not contain any of them. ﬁ = ﬁ
o Seiszahycopt =) =
:It;lheTwmt?anminedin(hegloMmmmmﬂM : g o s
mvedpmeded T in the serialization order, are also contained in the g';so::lm“ﬁ which Centrlized Dotabase System  Distributed Database System
wili blelTol;?I:h: 'tl;c utcf[&mm cannotbe guarantid as the ffec Ofwmt:amacti A Changes in the corporate environment toward decentralized opcrauonslhave (pﬁmple:
i ) G Bt e ¢ ne
g failure. But all of the transaction before a given point of time organizations fo move toward distributed database systems that complemen
The consistency requirements are met as recovery replies the earli (;Cocd:"“f:l'll‘:’db;@;“;i}’;: may have many local-area networks (LANs) joined with 2
;nmacliomf, - S e onsa WANy af well as additional data servers and applications on the LANs. Clienl:
ecovery of the participant s performed by the warm restart lcations at the sites need o access data locally through the LAN of remotely throug
record wnlt'lecn‘in the log: i ket :hpep WAN. For example, a client in Tokyo n:rihdt loc(.;:cll);l acaf r: dl:blc stored on the
o when it's an action or abort, actions are undone; when it’s it, acti | Tokyo data server or remotely access a table stored on ew York data server.
redone; either way, the failure has occurred before starting ‘;:::)n:nl:i’t “r‘(":’:;;" In a distributed database environment, mainframe computers may be peeded at corporate
o when it's ready, failure has occurred during 2PC; participant is in do;:abt abo'ut or regional headquarters (0 maintain sensitive corporate data, whnl}: clients at remote sites
the result of the transaction. ’ use minicomputers and server-class workstations for Jocal processing.
o During a warm restart, the identifiers of the transactions in d ; :
the ready set. For each of them the final tmnsac(iono:{;ézmgurz:::eb?"ecgg Both centralized and distributed database systems must deal with the problems associated
from the TM. i with remote access: i
o This can happen as a result of a direct (remot + Network response slows when WAN traffic is heavy. For example, a mission-
as a repetition of the second phase oftl(e p,o‘;c’(;wmy) S SRR critical transaction-processing application may be adversely affected when 4
' | decision-support application requests a [arge number of rows.
5. What is local autonomy? [MODEL QUESTIO + A centralized data server can become a bottleneck as a large user community
Answer: N contends for data server access.
Local autonomy means that all the data in the distributed network : « Datais unavailable when a failure occurs on the network.
locally. For example, a site in one location might have a rem:,:c dag;;::ﬁ:‘dag:?aﬂ Distributed databases can be defined as collection of multiple, logically interrelated
in a national distributed system. While functioning as a part of the distribut cz e “l: o databases distributed over a computer network. All the database must be logically related
the local database continues to process local operations independently from the ovemli that are managed by DDBMS (distributed database management system).
distributed system, and does not rely on the distributed system to E et While a centralized database has all its data on one place. As itis otally different from
i distributed database which has data on different places. In centralized database as all the
data reside on one place s problem of bottle-neck can occur, and data availability is not
efficient as in distributed database.
DDMS-72 DDMS-73
I
