g
Messages (i‘_&‘:. in state w1), it aborts the transaction upon recovery, according to the curn (1
failure transition. The cohorts time out waiting for the prepare message, and also abort :;se
the transaction as per the timeou transition. return (NPSQuorum);
Phase I1l : Z:g
In the third phase, on receiving acknowledgements to the Prepare messages from all the i
cohqn;. the coordinator sends a Commit message (o all the cohorts. A cohort, on Algorithm for Write Quorum Construction:
receiving a Comnl message, commits the transaction. If the coordii..t~r fails before Function Write Quorum(Trees): QUORUM;
sending the commit message (i.c, in state pl), it commits the transaction upon recovery, var NeSOGceum, children: (UONDM;
according to the failure transition from state PL. The cohorts time ot waiting for the * o ivaE DOSRIIIRGEG
Comm!l message, They commit the transaction according to the timeout transition from begin
state pi. However, if a cohort fails before sending an acknowledgement message to a - e
Prepare message, the coordinator times-out in state pl. The coordinator aborts the e Sl
transaction and sends Abort m toall th e . return ({ )); :
ill abort th i 5 . eCOMﬂS-Thtfalledcohm,uponmovery, else if all nodes of NPS (node) is already taken then
Wil abort the transaction weorc_lmgto the failure transaction from state wi. for each child ¢ children
3Ph?5°°°mm““““b!°°h§¢“llphmmuwcrbom\donﬂnmmofﬁme NPSQuorum = NPSQuorum U
required before 2 transaction either commits or aborts. This property ensures that if a WriteQuorum = (child subtree);
given mwm 1S attempting to commit via this protocol and holds some resource else if all nodes of NPS (node) are accessible then
locks, it will release the locks after the timeout. begin
NPSQuorum = NPSQuorum U
b) In a distributed database system, a transaction could be executing its operations at (any node among node and is siblings);
multiple sites. Since atomicity requires every distributed transaction to be atomic, the |
transaction must have the same fate (commit or abor) at every site, In case of network fax s Ehi3d & cltidum
partidoning, sts are parttioned and the partions may no b abl t commuricate with g o SO
each other. This is where a quorum-based technique comes in. The fundamental idea is If unable to take any node from NPS(node)
that a transaction is executed if the majority of sites vote to execute it return ({ });
1 Every site in the system is assigned a vote Vi. Let us assume that the total number of else .
votes in the system is V, and the abort and commit quorums are Va and Vc, respectively. return (NPSQuorum);
end
Algorithm for Read Quorum Construction: else
Function Read Quorum (irees): QUORUM; return ({ });
var NPSQuorum, children: QUORUN; i
gi:m’ e 5. What aro the uses of catalogs in DDBMS? What are the contents of catalog?
node = root of the tree; Ho«nhlopmnlloahdhdlﬂmntaolz'ln DBMS?
gtﬁ“"(‘f)‘j“’ Foat Describe how you will manage the storage and allocation of a global system
else if all nodes of NPS (node) are accessible then catalogue in a distributed DBMS. [MODEL QUESTION]
return (each node of NPS(node)); Answer:
s 3) The Global System Catalog holds information specific to the distributed nature of the
begin system, such as the fragmentation and allocation schemas. A site catalog describes all
children = children of node; objects (fragments, replicas) at a site and keeps track of replicas of relations created at
for each node ¢ children his site,
NPSQuorum = ReadQuorum(child Subtrees); Contents of catalog: It stores not only data regarding relations, indexes, users, etc, but
1If all nodes of NPS(node) are inaccessible then also all the necessary control information for independence in the following manner:
DDMS-82 DDMS-83
e = » 13
