) .
—— g : g Jf
v v
POPULAR PUBLICATIONS l {
e ined in the loca
' fion T is contained in the 106
) ‘ ansaction of a transac tained in the
The folowing figure shows the Unilateral Abort flow. : Ira ﬂ:ﬁ "olhcr b ransaction of T must be con
Trisaction II g:;kpoinls at other sites.
Manager Manager | [n the case of cold restart ool ]
(ake the latest availa!alc local c|hfh p: int and re-establish the local states at
A Paricipant may send ar take the COITCSPOﬂd’mg glb:]bahcclt;() lpﬂ(:
b:f::imn;c sites according o this global ¢
m R | Prepared message in Phase , ; . :
‘ - il b Generaton ofgobal checkpoin be performed when there is no active transaction. The
" ” The snapshol, the checkpoint must b¢ per hould wait for site B.
ik xact solution needs a lot of idle time as site A §
: ¢
[y ™ e "
Abort ized checkpoints: o en interval, Every checkpoi
\ Loosely synchron heckpoint within a given interval. EVETY Ci
An_by.mrmn. = X The 'sitzs can perform u'cb:n 1-,,30 TM should guarantee (hat'lf a T finishes before
participant have voted identified by an order num | finishes beforethe local Ci.
by =1 Lol el of s o bl o gobl hespins
uArm m'.',ﬁ':. The following figure shows synz onization p Time
Pt sl ——%
T; y
ite 2 \ 7
2 Explain checkpoint and cold restart of a distributed database system. 4 R el
[MODEL QUESTION] y
Answer: Site3 T, G
Check point: A checkpoint is a synchronization record placed in the log to note a point oy for 2-phase-commitment
when all concluded transactions are safely on disk. It limits the log segment needed to T nd T, we buctions o et T, Tl’)‘mm 6 :
recover from a failure, ‘ - 1,Cy, Cs welocal heckpoins(startedfrom sie
Cold restart: After a fatal failure of the system, the actual consistent state of the DBMS is T Vi m— =READY, C=COMMIT)
lost. An archived older consistent state is to be recovered. As a2 DDBMS has global == Mesagesof o commanent o (k = READY., .
consistent state, a site cannot change their state independently from the other sites. Jf one Synchronization problems for global checkpoints
site has to make cold restart then all of the other sites must make cold restart, QUESTION]
For each transaction T, the state contains the updates performed by all subtransactions of 3. What i the flat transaction? Explain with example. [MODEL
T atany site (T is contained in the global state), or it does not contain any of them. Men
[fthe T transaction is contained in the global state, then all conflicting transactions which | Flat Transaction
have preceded T in the serialization order, are also contained in the global state, Comsists of ) Bepnumston
The duration in the ACID concept cannot be guaranteed as the effect of some transactions ~ Computation on local variables not seen by DBMS; hence wi '
will be lost due to the fatal failure. But all of the transactions before a given point of time be ignored in most future discussion . i
S it = Access to DBMS using call or statement leyel lnlﬂ"fiCC :
The consistency requirements are met as recovery replies the earlier consistent o This is transaction schedule; commit applies to these e !
transactions. . tions I
The checkpoint de replication notes a point of time when a snapshot is taken about a ‘ ‘})Jp:li:tcml aciwe I
consistent state of the database system. A global checkpoint is a set of local checkpoi.m ) asingle DBMS Commit
;hﬁn ux performed at all sites of the system and are synchronized by the following i d: equate for simple applications
DDMS-71
DDMS-70
k - 2
