L
FMMM DISTRIBUTED DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Exclusive locks o i i R & S where F is a formula which
_Join of two relations R and S is denoted as
These locks proect i e . sl 5 jection of all atributes of th firs
e ownl;o n :ﬁ;ﬂam to file resources, boﬁ! recoverable and non-tecoverable o specifies a join predlcat:,.a.nd is dﬂtlved ff::m (:1: :l::l:xson of a
exmive lock Y one lransaction at a time. Any transaction that requec - operand rlation after the join operation of the e s
1ustve lock must wait if another task currently o : fequires an major difference between Natural Join and Semi Join is emi
against the requested resource. Y owns an exclusive lock or a shared oc > al projection operation on all attributes of the first operand relation afier natural
i '.d'dnzon uI::J The size of the resultant relation of Semi Join operation is less than that of
Shared locks Jﬁ::umin Therefore, the performance of Semi Join operation is increased. Note that
A shared lock reserves it object for read join is not commudative, i.c.
: ing only. I semi-join 5 not co .
process of being updated during a read -on?y guzg a:dmlo"éfsa mric:rl:o is b:ot USI:d the g RD<ABS # SDEABR
prevent updates of a record between the i k to
Synchronous poin, ¢ ime that a record is read and the next For an example consider the tables Emplo) ¢ and Dept.
It prevents the object from changing whi - [ Emplyee |
ging while the |
pceashrd ok on e s ock remains. More than one program can Name | Empld | Depihame [ DeptName | Manager
Tiaatijoonco mﬁ :'
The principal idea behind the time stamping scheme is that each transaction is given a mnﬂ.m ‘ m-
;mque time stamp used to decide the serialization order. mmm |
Wo primary methods are used to generate unique timestamps, one is centralized and
is distributed. In Qne centralized scheme, a single site is chosen for distributing the The natural join of the two tables is given by
Ummps: The site can use a logical counter or its own local clock for this purpose,
In thc distributed scheme, each site generates a unique local type stamp using either a mmmm
logical counter or the local clock. The global unique timestamp is obtained mmmm
: . g p by
concatenation of lhe‘umque local type stamp with the site identifier, which must be mmm
unique. We use the site identifier in the least significant position to ensure that the global m&!ﬂlmm
timestamps generated in one site are not always greater than those generated in another mmm :
site.
We may still have a problem if one site generates local timestamps at a faster rate than Consider the following Dept table '
: ps
does the other site. In such a case, the fast site’s logical counter would be larger than that [ Dt |
of other sites. Therefore, all timestamps generated by the fast site will be larger than m
those generated by other sites. A mechanism is needed to ensure that the local imestamps m
are generaled fairly across the system. To accomplish the fair generation of timestamps, g_m
we define within each site S, a logical clock (LC,) which generates the unique local m
timestamp. To ensure that the various logical clocks are synchronized, we require that a “ fo
site S, advance its logical clock whenever a transaction T; with timestamp <x,y> visits Production m
that site and x is greater than the current value of LC;. In this case, site S, advances its e
i o - b
logical clock to the value x+y. The semijoin of Employee and department is given by
4. What are the difference between semi join and natural join? Explain with Name | Empld | DeptName |
example. Show that semi join in not commutative. [MODEL QUESTION] m_
pumer . e
The Natural Join of two relations R and S is defined as R P4 S is an equijoin in which all
attributes with the same names in the two relations are compared.
DDMS-37
DDMS-36
