. POPULAR PUBLICATIONS
read(terminal "
s::: mﬂ. SNAME DDBMS | iy : Replication transparency . . e )
from SUPPLIER m Site | A copy of cach fragment can be maintained at several sites. Data replication is the design
where SNUM = SSNUM, o Eo process 0f deciding which fragments will be replicated. A DISTRIBUTED SYSTEM
b i m Site2 often employs DATA REPLICATION to ensure a fast response from databases and to
(a) Fragmentation transparency (level 1) e enable the system (0 be rcsili;nl o ha:‘dw;;e l):rrors. Reptllical;:n uanSplarcncg is the term
X ‘ ibe the fact that the user should be unaware that data is replicated.
read(terminal, SSNUM), W = used o descr y i
mﬁmgmms 6. “High reliability does not ensure correctness of the distributed system.”
where SNUM = SSNUM, Comment critically. [MODEL QUESTION]
if not #FOUND then DDBMS - Answer:
mﬁmmﬁ w ol High Reliability: Distributed applications often require substantial.cﬂjon to achigve
Where SNUM = SSNUM, citker () Jevels of reliability equivalent to those expected from stand-alone applications. Detecting
el SNAME) W See ervice failures in a stand-alone application is relatively straightforward.
(b) Location transparency (level 2) e === When the failed site recovers or is repaired, tpeghanisms must be available to integrate it
W 2 smoothly back into the system. Data transmission costs are also reduced here since all
e sers at all sites are not accessing one centralized database. Distributed reliability
from suppug:,w :#;#E, protocols maintain the atomicity and durability properties by
where SNUM = $SNUM, o (1) ensuring that either all of the actions of a transaction that is executing at different sites
ifnot KFOUND then i
Seect NAME i SNAME ﬁ oy complete successfully (called commit) or none of them complete successfully (called
from SUPPLIER, AT SITE 3 : abor), and L ; -
where SNUM = SSNUM, (2) ensuring that the modifications made to the database by committed transactions
wrie(ermina, SNAME) m Site2 curvive failures. The first requires atomic commit protocols (see Commit Protocols),
(c) Local mapping transparency (level 3) while the second requires recovery protocols. s
Comectness conditions are not satisfied by reliability factors each time.
: 5. What are the fragmentation, replication and location transparencies? 7. What are the components which are necessary for building a distributed ‘
[MODEL QUESTION] database? [MODEL QUESTION]
Answer: Answer: c
Fragmentation fransparency The basic components are as follows:
Fragmentation transparency hides the fact from users that the data are fragmented. This is ¢ Local data management system (DM): This module is responsible for accessing
the highest level of distribution transparency. If a distributed system has fragmentation - data stored at the site.
transparency, then the user must not be aware regarding the fragmentation of data. As a o The data dictionary: The information regarding distribution of data (i.c. fragments)
result, database accesses must be based on global schema and the user need not to specify is stored in the data dictionary.
the particular fragment names or data locations. + The transaction Module: This module creates the global plan for execution of a
query based on the information stored in the data dictionary. TM translates global
chatlan t(ansparemy . _ query into queries on fragments stored at different sites. TM also ensures
With location transparency, the user is aware how the data are fragmented but still does concurrency control, access planning, query optimization and distributed query
not have any idea regarding the location of the fragments. Location transparency is the execution,
middle level of distribution transparency. To relrieve data from a distributed database ¢ The data communication module (DC): This module is responsible for reliable
with location transparency, the end user or programmer has to specify the database inter-site communication using the links.
fragment names but need not specify where these fragments are located in the distributed
system. 8._Describe the reference architecture of Distributed Database Management system
with proper diagram. [MODEL QUESTION]
DDMS-8 DDMS-9
