i ks
F DT IBU LD DA TABASK MANAGEMEN] (5110
) I8 the specification of the number of occyrrences
Mlhmofmdmo:jfu Ofone bjct tht an be avallable on the Salary attribute, we can use the Index 1 locate the tuphes. Different
"'mﬂobldmulmmwmmw“(l,l : algorithins might have different cont
clduwmyobjm(mmmmmhér‘m"m”&mm hus, I order 1o specify fully how 1o evaluate & query, the system Is responsibde for
can relate 10 some other number of occurrences of ; objmoa 'M"‘“N i object construting & query exscution plan which made up of the relational lgebra exprossion
Cardinality defines “the maximum number of objcts tha (MN relutionship) and the detailed algorithms to evaluste each operstion i that expression. Morearir, the
Wp'.mm.llhmmmmwmd can- paricipate fn o selected plan should minimize the cost of quary evalustion The prouess of choosing 4
Mobl-amumlmumm‘, whether of not a paricular wmmmmum-mmmmhmw
: Optimizer.
&W"/MM f ?mwmofqulmiulonml:dmdlmw,m'ymwwm
main steps in expression thal 1y equivalent to gven expression bl that s more officient 1
sleps I processing u higholevel query are lltrated n e | e ocul, The other apect nvolves th selction of 8 deall gy o rocassing te
Qe o g query, this relates 1o chossing the prouessing sborithn, chonning he indions o s wd
000,
o Tk e h qery gl chsen, h vy Ecton gy bt o, st
that plan and return the answer of the query,
Welational Algebes | npessions
4, What are the sdditional threst 1o handle desdlock from centralized U distntwted
| e BMS? Explain contralized and hirarchica Sesdic dectin Dicss the oocs
of roplication 1 crosts desdlock. [MODEL GUESTION)
st sow s Answer:
Fassation pon The problem of deadlock detection is more difficht in & distributed databass than in &
centralized one, becase the ciroular waking situstion which determines a deadlonk can
._@ involve seversses o o jus ne
(pery Ontgpat spoeassandesd 10 P 'D"“
Wiz Sheps in query processing process Q
::;":“:dfm :"‘“ w:h parsing and ramlating 4 given highlevel language
4o its imemediate form such as relational alyebra expressions, The parser need t anyansassadpoll Tl 2
dlg}tl«x::mofﬂlcmddwmhdzmmicfdlhcwy(ilmt: @ LA) = D'A
v " 4 /
d W o s § ot o b S o Al e R
anslaed it relational dyehna expression. Itrinas wd ool was-Non pyghs
A rdional dggna expression of 4 query specifies only partially how W evaluate 4
query, there are severdl ways 1o ovdbutte 0 relationdl Wlyghns exgression. For crample, There several methods for dealing with deadlocks n a ditribued system
consider the query. 1, Deadlock detection using cenealized of Werachical conteol
SELECT Sabary PROM EMPLOYEE WHERE Salary = 00, . Distribwied deadlock detection
The prrsibhe selationdl dyphna exgressions for this query are. b, Deadlock prevention
¢ Nskf sy A EMASIYER )
¢ syl s fMASIVEE) LW%*W«M&@*‘: _
Furtber, cach redationdl dyhra operation can e exssssed wsing varions it For In hiaschical sypriten, stes e Oogjcally) arrangod in berwchical fashion, wd » ske
cramghe, W imhement. e proveding shection, we can o 4 linear wach in the is tespomsithe on Gersin Beadonks wov i, oy 1 chibdeen stes The, sy
EMPLOYEE file 1o retriens the tughes with Salary 7= SO0, Womener, if a0 inder take advatage of uess paierss that e Vocaized 10 3 chuser of ies 1o opfimize
DIMS52 DIMSA3
