. DISTRIBUTED DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Eraph is:
[ query optimization. Query decomposition and data localization correspond to query
, rewriting. The first three layers are performed by a central control site and use schema
i information stored in the global directory. The fourth layer performs distributed query
AN execution by executing the plan and retums the answer to the query. It is done by the
\ local stes andthe conrol st
v Query Decomposition: The first layer decomposes the distributed calculus query into an
/ algebraic query on global relations. The information needed for this transformation is
0 ) found in the global conceptual schema describing the global relations.
s Tpgoy: O ;
I e Data Localization: The input to the second layer is an algebraic query on distributed
[ I relations. The main role of the second layer is to localize the query's data using data
0 ASG ASG distribution information, This layer determines which fragments are involved in the query
and transforms the distributed query into a fragmented query.
b)
‘m.i".:’: Global Query Optimization: The input to the third layer is a fragment query, that is, an
| algebraic query on fragments. The goal of query optimization is (o find an execution
Quey strategy for the query, which s close to optimal. An execution strategy for a distributed
query can be described with reltional algebra operations and communication primitives
(send / receive operations) for transferring data between sites.
Algely
(.M:I‘Rmm Local Query Optimization: The last layer performed by all the sites having fragments
\ involved in query. Each sub-query executing at one site, called a local query, is then
Control Data optimized using the local schema of the site. At this time, the algorithms to perform the
™ Deconpesiion relational operations may be chosen. Local optimization uses the algorithms of
centralized systems.
Alpebraic Query on
'"'r“" 3, Consider the join R/N S Assume that R and S are at different sites; and
Global disregarded the cost of collection the result of the join. Let C, = 0and C| =1.
The following profiles are given:
slze (R) = 50; card (R) = 100; val(A[R]) = 50; Size (A) =3
Distributed Query on size (S) = 5; card (S) = 50; val(B[S]) = 50; Size (B) =3
. ‘“"‘i“ e RSJ,,S has seloctively p =02
Tooks e S8, R has seloctively p=08
Sites I'xecution Glve the transmission cost of:
) 1) performing the join at the site of R using semi-join reduction
Fig: The Different Layers / Steps of Query Processing Ii) performing the join at the site of S using semi-join reduction
- i) performing the join at the site of R without semi-join reduction
I the above Figure a generic layering scheme for o 1v) performing the join at the site of S without semi-join reduction
! query processing is shown where each
layer solves a well-defined sub-probl om. F R AR b Which Is the best solution? [MODEL QUESTION]
query processing, problem. Four main layers are involved in distributed
The first three layers map the input imized distri
b query into an optimized distributed query execution
plan. They perform the functions of uery decomposition, data localization, and global
DDMS-48 ‘ DDMS-49
