/ POPULAR PUBLICATIONS
2. Explain shell sort technique. [MODEL QUESTION]
Answer:
The shell sort, sometimes called the “diminishing increment sort,” improves on the DI STRIBUTED DATABASE
insertion sort by breakmg the onglnal list into a number of smaller SUb-IlSlS, each of T —————— T T TR e e i £ T
which is sorted using an insertion sort. The unique way that these sub-lists are chosen is :
the key to the shell sort. Instead of breaking the list into sub-ists of contiguous items, the MANAGEIENT S YSTEM
shell sort uses an increment i , sometimes called the gap, to create a sub-lists by choosing ———
all items that are  items apart. This can be seen in figure. This list has nine items. If we
use an increment of three, there are three sub-lists, each of which Ean be sorted by an
insertion sort. After completing these sorts, we get the list shown in figure. Although this
list is not completely sorted, something very interesting has happened. By sorting the Introduction 2
sub-lists, we have moved the items closer to where they actually belong, Figure shows a
final insertion sort using an increment of one, in other words, a standard insertion sort, Distributed Database Design 17
Note that by performing the earlier sub-list sorts, we have now reduced the total number
of shifting operations necessary to put the list in its final order. for this case, we need istributed Query Optimization 31
’ only four more shifts to complete the process. In the way in which the increments are Dist Quen s
4 chosen is the unique feature of the shell sort. The function shell sort shown below uses a - 67
different set of increments. In this case, we begin with 2 sub-lists. On the next pass, 4 Transaction Management
subdlists are sorted. Eventually, a single list is sorted with the basic inscrtion sort Figure
shows the first sub-lists for our example using this increment. Parallel Database Systems 88
unn 55 | 20 | sublst Advanced Topics 91
e]o e [r]n ] [o]] e
FlTe o r[a]uls o] . |
uu 7|3 u 55 | 20 | sublst 1 soed
[ I
I'Iﬂﬁﬁﬁnﬁlll sublist 2 sorted
e o HOTE:
. - P I\III"II sublist 3 sorted n
III“’II‘I MAKAUT course structure and syllabus of 6" semester has been changed from 2021
ll lI DISTRIBUTED DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM has been introduced as a
- n afler sorting sublists new subject in present curriculum. Taking special care of this matter we are providing
1726 n 5 atincrement 3 chapterwise model questions & answer, so that students can get an idea about
university questions patterns.
b AGL-144
