& §
§ it
POPULAR PUBLICATIONS RE
a copies al multiple sites
b) One of the ways in which  remote database can be accessed by an application is via Data ropllation refes to (thcoﬂi(::? ,;;not;iaslmdpm several s':lu (o0 serve
an auxiliary program, This program is written by an application programmer which computer network. Fragment cop
returns the result to (he requesting application, i information requirements.
5. What aro corroctness rulos of fragmentation? Explain each ryle, 7, a) What aro the factors affocting allocation? [MODEL QUESTION)
[MODEL QUESTION) b) Whiatls miotetm prodicate?
Answer: ' Answer:

Correctness Rules of Fragmentation are oy follows: ) The factors affecting allocation are:

1) Completeness- Decomposition of relation R into fragments RI, R, .. Rn is ' ¢ response time constraints

complete ff each data item in R can also be found in some Rj, : * availability constrains

+ network topology

b) Reconstruction- | relation R s decomposed into fragments R1, R2, , . . Rn, then o security resrictions

there should exist some relationa] operator V' that reconstructs R from its fragments, i¢,, -

R=RY... VRn b) Minterm predicate y for a set of P of simple predicates refers to conjunction of all
* - Union o combine horizonal ragmens predicates appearing in P cithr taken in natural form or negated provided that the
*Join to combine vertcal fragments. expression is not a contradiction. Simple and negated simple predicates.

¢) Disjointness- If relation R is decomposed into fragments R1, R2,..., Rnand data Examples:

item di appears in fragment Rj, then di should not appear in any other fragment Rk, k < PNAME = “Maintenance” AND BUDGET < 200000

 (exception: primary key attribute for vertica| fragmentation) NOT(PNAME = “Maintenance”) AND BUDGET < 200000
¢ For horizontal fragmentation, data item is a tuple
* For vertical fragmentation, data item is an ann'%u(c 8.a) What is vertical clustering? [MODEL QUESTION]
‘ b) What is partial union?
6. What is the d co a Answer:
roplication? Moronce among data fragmentation, data [::ggtloguaensdndoﬁ; 8) In Vertical clustering an attribute may be contained in more than onc.ﬁ'agmct_ils. The
Answer; vertical clustering causes replication of some data elements. The replication is more
Data fragmentation allows one to break a single object into two or more segments or advantageous for the read-only applications than for the reac.l-wrile application. In the
[ragmens. The object might be a user's database, o system database, or a table, Fach latter case, the same update operation is performed on several sites.
fragment can be stored af any site over a computer network. Information about data
(ragmentation s stored in the distributed data catalog (DDC), from which it is accessed h) Let R and § be two union-compatible relations. Then their union RUS s a relation
by the TP o process user requests, Which contains tuples from both relations: R()§ = {xxeR orxes).
" Union is a-partial operation on relations: it is only defined for some (compatible)
Thereae lhme types o dun ff"'“‘""“m RiNap: relations, nolI:‘or all of them. i
¢ Horizontal fragmentation
* Vertical fragmentation, 9. What is Mixed and Horizontal Fragmentation? Explain with an examplo.
* Mixed fragmentation [MODEL QUESTION]
Answer;
Allocation describes the process of deciding where 10 locate data. Data allocation Mixed Fragmentation: The fragments that are obained by the above fragmentation
re as follows: Operations are relations themselves, so that it is possible to apply the fragmentation
ntralized dat allocation, the entire database is stored at one e, operations recursively, provided that the correctness conditions are satisfied each time.
tioned data allocat on, the database s divided into two or more The reconstruction can be obiained by applying the reconstruction rules in reverse order.
1ents) and stored at two or more sites, Example: Consider the same global refation
n, copies of one or more database fragments are EMP (EMPNUM, NAME, $L, TAX. MGRNUM, DEPTNUM)
' ’ DDMS-23
