DISTRIBUTED DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
We can identify four mai ' .
. Distﬁbn:i?m r main types of transparency ina DDBMS: Most modern commercial DBMS are based on this system. The ANSI-SPARC model
ransparency
- powever never became a formal standard.
a) Fragmentation transparency ANSSPARC
b) Location transparency ' E Archiecture for
» Transaction transparency Duabases
a) Performance transparency / I \
b) DBMS transparency externl level
(View)
2" Part:
Network transparency: i ml:d
According (o this property, a distributed database must be network transparent. Network
transparency means that a user must be unaware about the operational details of the v e Satte
network. thwork transparency is basically one of the properties of distributed database. -
Actually in dlsu'}btned databases when a user wants o access data and if that particular
data does not exist on user computer then it i the responsibility of DBMS o provide the — -
data from any othcr corpputcr where it exists. User does not know about this thing as g (Physical level)
froq\ where data is coming, Network transparency also means roaming transparency and ~
it gives the freedom of entering query from any workstation to a user. So a user does not
know hm where the results of query are coming as results may be coming from user A standard three level approach to database design has been agreed upon:
workstation or any other workstation. Here the term roaming means that if a user moves o External level
from one place to other then all other users does not know about this. + Conceptual level
: + Internal level (includes physical data storage)
Replication transparency:
A copy ofcach'fr.agmcnl can be maintained at several sites. Data replication is the design The Three Level Architecture has the aim of enabling users to access the same data but
_ process of deciding which fragments will be replicated. A DISTRIBUTED SYSTEM with a personalised view of it. The distancing of the intemal level from the extemal level
often employs DATA REPLICATION to ensure a fast response from databases and to means that users do not need to know how the data is physically stored in the database.
enable the system o be resilient to hardware errors. Replication transparency is the term This level separation also allows the Database Administrator (DBA) to change the
used to describe the fact that the user should be unaware that data is replicated. database storage structures without affecting the users' views.
« External Level (User Views): A user's view of the database describes a part of the
3. a) Draw the ANSI/SPARC reference architecture of Distributed Database System database that is relevant to a particular user. It excludes irelevant data as well as data
and discuss about the site independent schemas. which the user is not authorized to access.
b) Show with the help ol e tagranthat replicated copy of R; of fragment R, is o Conceptual Level: The conceptual level is a way of describing what data is stored
allocated into different sites as Ry and R; ithin the whole database and how the data is inter-related. Th ol Jeed
¢) When Bottom-up approach of distributed database design preferable over Top- R e o 0 - e
down approach? does ot specify how the data is physically stored.
d) Explain the advantage of Remote access via an auxiliary program in case of Some important facts about this level are:
heterogeneous distributed database system with the help of a diagram. 1. DBA works at this level.
[MODEL QUESTION] 2. Describes the structure of all users.
a) 1" Part: 4. Global view of database.
The ANSI-SPARC Architecture, where ANSI-SPARC stands for American National 5. Independent of hardware and software.
Standards [nstitute, Standards Planning And Requirements Committee, is an abstract o Internal Level: The intemal level involves how the database is physically
design standard for a Database Management System (DBMS), first proposed in 1975. represented on the computer system. It describes how the data is actually stored in the
database and on the computer hardware.
DDMS-12 DDMS-13
