PUBLICATIONS
DISTRBUTED DALABASE MANAGEMENT SY5TEM
9. Which of the following ls
u) romote data mo:d iy | [MODEL QU 16, Which of the following fallures doss not occur In & distributed system?
b) derived 'mmnull:: ,..:‘ distributed database Is samo RTON (MODEL QUESTION]
¢) 3 phase commit Is an ”mll;::d uindanoy i o) Disk fallures ) Link fallures ¢) Mossago Loss  d) None of these
A d) blal;; 2 phase locking protocol mmmgmm.mm mﬂ Answer: (¢)
nswer; 0 k
16, Which of the following refers o the operation multiple physical %b(;;]o
10. Which of the following is Incorrect? pelonging to a distributed system? [MODEL QUESTI
) redundancy is allowed in distributed database to | [MODEL QUESTION] 9 B'lckup b) Recovery ¢) Replication d) All of these
b: cold restart is required aftor catastrophic fallre ncroase rollability Answer: (c)
o)m | rotocol ‘
d) pﬂ.‘n‘m e?p';"::.:w ,.,,:' ot ensuro seriallzabilty 17. In basle TO algorithm [MODEL QUESTION]
Answer: (¢) ces rellabllity of distributed database 4) younger transaction are executed first
b) older transaction are restarted
)'old transaction are executed first
11, A transaction manager is which . s
a) maintains a log og mn..cuo,: e Soxavingt [MODEL QUESTION] . d) both older and younger transaction are restarted
b | Answer: (c)
)) m:mllm before and after database images !
¢) maintains a
d) all of these S i ] Short Answer Type Questions
Answer: (d)
' 1, Explain unilateral abort capability in the context of 2-phase commit pvotoc:;io
! ODEL QUE!
12. Which of the following is true concerning a global transaction? i o M N]
DEL QUESTION] ‘ il  partci he outcome of the transaction, any participant can decide o
a) the required data (Mol Until a participant votes on the outco , any participan
Mu'::h as nms::r.y Bt one-loos! eke anCISSRRIINS] DBNS rovies i unilaterally stop the transaction by issuing an Abort request (o its transaction manager.
b) the required data are located 1 This ability is known as a Unilateral Abort.
distributed DBMS routes roq'u”th:. :::::::,;m JRRIRocH sl and the ! After a transaction manager receives an Abort request from one of its participants, it
c) the required data are at one local site and the distributed DBMS passes the g immediately transitions the transaction o the Aborting state, which guaranices an Abort
request to only the local DBMS ! outcome. All other participants will be notified of the Abort outcome, although it is
d) the required data are located in at least one nonlocal site and the , possible that the root application does not discover the Abort outcome until it attempts to
distributed DBMS passes the request to only the local DBMS l complete the transaction or perform some other operation involving the transaction
Answer: (b) { manager or another participant.
l' After a specified transaction manager enfers the Aborting state, it does not issue any
13. The name of the agent at the site of origin of a transaction is . further Phase Zero notifications or Phase One requests to vote. For a transaction that
_ [MODEL QUESTION] spans two Or more transaction managers due to propagation, it is possible for the Abort
:; m:m _a?ent ¢ b) root agent outcome decision to race with other Phase Zero or Phase One activity as it is
principle agen d) none of these communicated between the transaction managers.
Answer: (b)
14. Whicl:h of the following techﬁiques is used when the information on stable |
storage is lost? [MODEL QUESTION] 1
a) Shadow paging b) Check point |
¢) Cold restart d) None of these
Answer: (c)
|
DDMS-68 L B
