~
a &g
DISTRIBUTED DAT, § é
POPULAR PUBLICATIONS '
d) What | )
at Is the most complex offect of update oporation in distributed database Y
:ymm? Explain with the help of update subtreo, [MODEL QUESTION] ;\
nswer:
1) The level of lransp‘arency of !hc above transaction is'Fragmenlulion Iransparency. - ' EMP;
Because, the transaction here hides the factfrom users haf the data are fragmented. This OOHX N
is the highest level of distribution transparency. If a distributed system has fragmentation / } '
transparency, then the user must pot he aware regarding the fragmentation of data, As ." — Um’%zm
result, (!ulnbnse dccesses must be based on global schema and the user need not to specify A S B
Uhe paricular fragment names or data locations h Sl
b)"Dclermining anon rcd}lndunl final allocation is easier. The simplest method is a "bes(.
tl,i: lappronch. a mca.:ure :15 associated with each possible allocation, and the site with the !
St measure is- selected. Replication introduces f ity i i ' . .
because; o b compledy in e daiy [n order to understand which data movement operations ar¢ nqu'mgo:Zi:r:zd;l:i::t:
1, The dcprec of replication of each fragment becomes a variable of the problem. f:.gmcnuliOn attribute, it is useful to lfmk . ll-lc rmgmenm:lor‘:am;mﬁon The update
2. Modeling read applications is complicated by the fact hat he applications can select . A which is used in a Sdmion. predicl g 8 horely ligrlln the ﬂb‘;"e horizontal
fmong several alternative sites for decessing fragments, For determining (he subtree of 4 is the subtree having as rool the node rc;‘)-nsen : Eh e updte sube for
'redundnnl a!location of fragments, either of the following two methods can be used: fragmentation. For example, we indicate in the abovgblgurc limited to the fragments
!) Determine the set of all sites where the benefi of allocating one copy of the atribute DEPTNUM. The effects of a change of an attribute are .f B A
fragment is higher than the cost, which are leaves of its update subtree. For example, a change of aftribul fe (change
it) - For non replicated problem, introduce replicated copies starting from the most allects only EMP, EMP, and EMF, but not EMP,. A tuple can Tllf:updllt
beneficial, fragments) between two of the three former fragments as a consequence of the uj | :

In general, the update subtree of a atribute A can be more complex than the su;np . onr:
¢) Directory file system provide the network transparency, Network transparency allows shown in Figure 1, and the effect of chang.ing a value of the attribute A. is th"::e s(:lr:\;:t)in
applications to access remote resources through network without needing to know complex. For example, suppose that relation EMP,h” the fragm en({notrl: sineRdiits
whether they are remote or local, In a distributed directory file system, network Figure 2.2 In this case the update subtree of atiibute DEPTNUM is fc i vt
transparency involves three aspects: naming, performance, and failure resiliency, whole fragmentation tree. The effect of ghan_glﬂs the DEP_ INUM th’e °h :h:llpl;c ol eg
Naming plays an important role in distributed file systems. A directory file system is said EMPNUM = 100 from 3 to 15 is shown in Figure 2.b. This upda}e is suc = t:en'
0 provide name transparency if it satisfies the following three requirements, First, any originally stored in fragments belonging to the left subtree of Figure 2.2, : nl;:wcen
fle s accessible from any location. Second, the same name is used at every location, And part of the right subtree. We sce that not only the data has been move
third, file location is not reflected i the pame. fragments, but the tuple has also been composed in a different way.

EMP
d) In providing distribution transparency to update applications, there is another problem \ !
Which is more complex than performing the updates on al copies of a data item. Consider
or example what happens if the CITY attribute of a supplier is modified. Clearly, the o . X,
er tuple must be moved from one fragmen to another, Moreover, in our example = o
 tuples of the SUPPLY relation which refer o the same supplier also must
because the SUPPLY relation has a derived fragmentation, It is EMP,  EMP,  EMP,  EMP
g the value of an attribute which is used in the definition of P} TS Lowrread <W(EMP)
ave rather complex effects, The degree o which these | ?&-»:Wumﬂn
aclerizes the leve i i EMP; = PloanwnonanernunSLoarnan«
the I (:t distribution transparency EMP,= Plnancsu oS Lasrnene o EMP)
B (a) A different fragmentation and fragmentation tree for relation EMP
i ' DDMS-27
