POPULAR PUBLICATIONS mmmmmww
' fragments that can be stored on different computers and perhaps replicated is hidden from
the user. The objective of the transparency is to make the dislribulgd system appear like a MA-B—AS—E—DEM
centralized system. ;
We can identify four main types of transparency in a DDBMS:
» Distribution transparency
a) Fragn!cnlmion {ransparency 1. Allocation problem is easier [MODEL QUESTION]
b) Location transparency a) in redundant system b) in non-redundant system
» Transaction transparency ¢) inreplicated (attributes) system d) both (a) and (c)
¢) Performance transparency ) Answer: (a)
d) DBMS transparency
2, Clustering means [MODEL QUESTION]
2™ Part: a) keeping a common data l:dont: :)ladc‘:h i
. b) keeping different types of data in different places
Networ_k (ransparency: s c)) kn:lnﬂ different types of data in one place
According to this property, a distributed database must be network transparent. Network d) keeping in a common data in different places
{ransparency means that a user must be unaware about the operational details of the Answer: (a)
network. Network transparency is basically one of the properties of distributed database. :
Actually in distributed databases when a user wants to access data and if that particular 3, The horizontal fragmentation of a relation cannot be based on a property of its
data does not exist on user computer then it is the responsibility of DBMS to provide the own attributes, but is derived from the horizontal fragmentation of another relation
data from any other computer where it exists. User does nol know about this thing as i6 Callod .ovevecrseesieeennss Fragmentation. [MODEL QUESTION]
from where data is coming. Network transparency also means roaming transparency and a) horizontal b) vertical
it ives the freedom of entering query from any workstation to a user. S0  user does no ¢) mixed d) derived horizontal fragmentation
know from where the results of query are coming as results may be coming from user Answer: (d) .
workstation or any other workstation. Here the term roaming means that if a user moves
from one place to other then all other users does not know about this. 4. Which of the following conditions cannot satisfy vertical hg[:omb';ttogzlESTIONl
Replication transparency: .
A cI:)py of each fral:;mcmtzan be maintained at several siles. Data replication is the design "_ Disjointness b) Completeness ) Reconstruction ¢) Robulld
process of deciding which fragments will be replicated. ADISTRIBUTED SYSTEM Auswer: (¢
often employs DATA REPLICATION to ensure a fast response from databases and to
enable lh[c) system (0 be resilient to hardware errors. Replication transparency s the term 5 Lm‘:::‘;‘:m’;:z ::Imlzo:(v;:tﬂl‘og;m folowing?  [MODEL QUESTION]
used to describe the fact that the user should be unaware that data is replicated. b) programmers to treat the data as ifitis at one location
¢) managors to treat the data as if it is at one location
b) Heterogencous databases: d) all of these
A heterogeneous DDBMS uses instead at least two different DBMSs. Heterogeneous Answer: (d)
DDBMSs add the problem of translating between the different data models of the
different local DBMSs to the complexity of homogeneous DDBMSs. For this reason, if 6. Storing a separate copy of the database at multiple locations is which of the
the development of a distributed database is performed top-down without a preexisting following? [MODEL QUESTION]
system, it is convenient to develop a homogencous sysiem. However, as it was stated in a) data replication b) horizontal partitioning
the previous section, in some cases the motivation for crealing a distributed database is ¢) vertical partitioning d) horizontal and vertical partitioning
the necessity of integrating several preexisting databases; in this case it is required to Answer: (a)
develop a heterogeneous DDBMS, capable of building a global view of the databasc. .
Although the problems of heterogeneous DDBMSs are very hard, and therefore really . Roplication should be used when which of the following oxlot?o .
hetcrogeneous DpBMSs exist onl)‘f as research Prqlolypcs, ru Im‘usl be s}mcd that S FanestoaRiall B hcucky T 4 notwo?: p?ohl;.ltufnzluo:]l
commercially available systems provide some degree of support for heterogeneily. rofreshing of large tables
DDMS-16 DDMS-17
