DISTRIBUTED DAT; 3 gy
q - )
=l BLIVATIONS %
] s Let us assign votes for the copies of data items in the following way: g é’ ;é
€Opy situation. This wil] always happen if we apply weighted voting o items having only Vi) =V()=V()=3 1
tWo copies, Howev?r, this is a particylar case; if many copies exist, so that different Y=Vl =r(@2)=1 )
majorities can be bul, then the o ©opy approach by a particular assignment of votes, V(2)=V(3)=V(3)=1 ) ‘
Severa_l enhancements of the primary copy approach exist Which make it more attractive. With this assignment we can now consider the availability'of the system in Ihe
ITheK:;nuPal e are: . _ partitions. We choose the read and write quorums to be 2 for all data items,
) :w't:g cctlmslent '“ds a d'ffﬁ'ﬂ\‘ copies than the primary, even if read locks are availability for the 12 transactions is shown in Figure. Thg fol'lqmng can be observed:'
3 :ﬁozn t(;‘ney . the.pnmary, this enhances the locality of reads 1. Transactions 1, 2, 3,4, 7, and 10 have all the same avallablht)!. They are cl!n.raclenud \
g céan;:Liglrpuon ofthe primary copy ifa site crash makes it unavailable; this by the fact that they access all three data items either for reading or for writing or for
4. Allowing the mi 0. P e : both. Since the read quorum is equal o the write quorum, it makes no difference whether
: enhancef the |Mgl;mlm e primary copy dependmg On s usage pattemn. This also the data item is read or written from the viewpoint of availability. For the same reason,
Nt transactions 5, 6, 8, and 11, which access only data itemls ;Iand ,;/.thha\lfe the same
i fort . ilability. Also, transactions 9 and 12 have the same availability of the latter group,
. Welght-majonty bocking ;:::sbel tgtl: copy with highest weight for data item x resides at the same site as the copy
o with highest weight for y. -
12 3456 3 0ulue U 2lw v g 2. The availability for update transactions is greater with the weighlgd majority approach
= : ] - 12 (1 than with write-locks-all, while the availability for read-only tramacuons is smaller.
uthions & ma g g '2 3. With this method, read-only transactions increase their availability if they can read an
> n.-I:I_-I ) inconsistent database, i.e.,if they do not need to lock items; in fact, columns 10/, 11 and
Weightd mjoiy, it 12" are the same for the majority approach as for the write-locks-all approach
V)=V ()= () =2.anq ¢) Write-locks-all:
V()= (3)=F ()2 A
1134567890 u_nfw y
mm 12 (I
Weight-majority locking: The pure majority locking approach is not very suitable for Putiions Aa -__m ; 22 12
our example, because two copies of each data item exist; hence to lock a majority wie ] S B I S N N
_must lock both. We will therefore consider a weighted majority approach, or quorum ’ ==
approach, which adopts the same rules which has been used for quorum-based '
commitment and termination protocols. Write-locks-all: The Figure shows, for each transaction and for each type of partition,
These rules, applied to the locking problem, consist of assigning to each data item x the group, if any, in which the transaction can be executed, The read-only transactions
total number of votes V), and assigning votes ¥(x) to each €opy 2, in such a way that 10, 11" and 12" are the same as 10, 11 and 12, except that consistency is not required for
V(%) is the sum of all Vix). A read quorum V,{x) and a write quorum ¥,(x) are then them; hence, no locks are used. The values of Figure confirm the intuition: For
determined, such that: transactions with a small write-set and especially for read-only transactions, the system is
V,(x)+¥, (x)> V() much more available than for transactions with a large write-set For read-only
transactions it makes no difference whether consistency is required or not, because the
V. (x)>¥ ()2 copy which is locked is required anyway for reading. Note that read-only transactions
A transaction can read (write) x if it obtains read (write) locks on 50 many copies of x that sometimes can run in more than one roup, because ifa data item has two copies in two
the sum of their votes is greater than or equal to ¥,(x)(V,). Due o the first condition, different groups, then no update transaction can write on it and read-only transactions can
all conflicts between read and write operations are determined, because two transactions use each copy consistently,
which perform a read and a write operation on x cannot reach the read and write quorum If we make the assumption that no partitions occur, but only site crashes, then the same
using two disjoint subsets of copes. Likewise, because of the second condition, al approach can be used as with a non-redundant database; .c., the updates of non-available
conflcts between write operations are determined. Notice that the second condition can copies of data items can be spooled. In this case, the availability of the database for
be omitted if transactions read all data items which are written, _ update transactions increases very much. In fact, since only the read-set matters in this
: DDMS-63
. ‘ DDMS-62
