o
™ Part: When existing databases are aggregated, a battom-up approach (o the design o
distribution can be used. This approach is based on the integration of existing
Sae into a single, global schema. It should be noticed l!mlhebonqmoupwmdllulh
xhom ":::' Jess easily to the development of horizontally fragmented relations.
Alcaton Datahase
, U s
111111-_:::.____‘_ Appheation Primitive DBMS
oy g
: lﬁ&: :M;fh: -
[ ) =
E —— (a) Remote access via DBMS primitives
=Sk |
Request for
Executon of
Figure shows 2 reference architecture for a distributed database. At due top level there in Apphestion |- Auvlary DRMS,
global schema. The globel schema defines all the data which are contained in the g — !
&m’hmddnhxsifdtﬂnmud’mﬂmdldl.hmismﬂ Seel
globel schema can be defined exactly in the same way as in a non distributed database. T Gkl Rt I N Y I
The global schema coasists of the definition of a set of global relations. Awuliary (| DBMS; ) Pomavesand
Each global relation can be spit into several non-overlapping portions which are called p o e
fregments. The mapping between global relations and fragments is defined in the ) R
fragmentation schema. This mapping is one to many; i.c. several fragments comresponds (b)m“‘ﬂ“"‘""mhﬂym
to ane gobel eation, but nly are glol relat k to one fragment AhctuogmemsDDBMSmsmudaluntwodiﬁamDBM&Hm
Fragments are logical portions of global relations which are physically located at pne or DDBMSs dd the problem of transating between the different data models of the
several sites of the network. The allocation schema defines at which site(s) a fragment is diffrent local DBMSs to the complexity of homogeneous DDBMSs. For this reason, if
bl ' mcdcvglo?tnulofadmib\nedchnhukpufumedtop-downwidmamm
S)m!mwmfmiqnwdmlopahomgamsyﬂmem,ashmwm
b) The diagram that replicated copy of R2 of fragment R1 is allocated into different sites the previous section, In some cases the motivation for creating a distributed database is
asR/}andR,'is: ~ e the necessty of integrating several prexisting databases; in this case it i required to
’"‘ /u :ﬁgm?w&mmwma global view of the database.
o MuogumDDBMSsmvaymmumgfmm|
g:.“.“_" "“WDPBMSSuiﬂaﬂyumrdnmmmiumubcmu:
~n,~u Risite2 commercially available systems mvidesmudegmofsuppm for heterogeneity.
ST 4. Write short notes on the following: [MODEL QUESTION]
G o a) Transparency .
¢) When the distributed database is developed s the aggregation of existing databases, jl b) Heterogeneous databases
is not easy 1o follow the top-down approach. In fact, in this case the global schema is Answer:
often produced as a compromise between existing data descriptions. It is even possible 4) DBMS Transparency:
that each pair of existing databases is independently interfaced using a different The term DBMS transparency refers to the ability of DDBMS to hide the implementation
translation schema, without the notion of a global schema; this, however, leads to systems details from the user. Thus the fact that a distributed database is split into several
which are different in conception from the reference architecture.
DDMS-14 | DDMS-15
