POPULAR PUBLICATIONS DISTRIBUTED DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Concurrency control techni imestamp . 3 : ,
deadlocks cinnol oceur. T ondering do not use locks; hence, ¥ ﬂ;ﬁtg‘g:_ ﬁTel"If?.Ew i
1Gﬂmem‘ian of Timestamp: ;:‘(;M
imestamps can be generated in DBMS several ibility i :
that is incremented each time its value is w!‘"’* 2":"’“,.,"',,"?0;’ 'ﬁe"", i mplfgﬁnms =*J. Doe
maximum nlm.w@mmwm,mmmm“mmm 8. Writo the R* algorithm.
tmim esw:‘m.m executing for some sbon period of time. Another way to implement Answer: - . sod as a relational algebra tree, the
tamps is (o use the current date/time value of the system clock and ensure that The input to the algorithm is the localized query expressed as
two timestamp values are generated during the same tick of the clock. nd Jocation of relations and their statistics.
In case to DDBMS, the timestamp generation is a bit more complicated as the site must [nput: QT: query tree
also be identified. The general approach for timestamping in DDBMS is to use the Qutput: strat: minimum cost stralegy
concatenation of the local timestamp with a unique identifier, <local timestamp, site begin
identifier>, The site identifier s placed in the least significant postion o ensure tht for each relation R, € 0T do
events can be ordered according to their occurrence as opposed to their location begin
for each access path A, to R, do
b) Query graph identifies redundant relation in an SQL: . AP
In a Query graph Nodes represent operand or result relation and Edge represents a join if determine cost (AP, )
both connected nodes represent an operand relation, otherwise it is a prjection. It can be end-for
used to simplify an SQL query by eliminating redundancies, e.g., redundant predicates. best- AP, ¢ AP, with minimum cost
:!edundmcia are .oﬂen due to semantic integrity constraints expressed in the query end
anguage e.g., queries on views are expanded into queri i i i .
integrity ,,,sr sjcumy oonstrains. Quoriof CREScnS hat i certaa for each order (R,,.R,,,.....R_) withi=1,...,n'do
y begin
Consider the following query: build strategy (.. ((BestdR, ..o Ry)>a R,)pa . R,)
SELECT TITLE FROM EMP
WHERE compute the cost of strategy
EMP.ENAME = *J, Doe" end-for
OR strat + strategy with minimgm cost
(NOT(EMP.TITLE = "Programmer’) for mh site k storing a relation involved in 0T do
( EMP.TITLE = "Elect. Eng." LS, « local strategy (strategy, k)
OR send ( LS, , site k) {each local strategy is optimized at site k}
EMP.TITLE = "Programmer" ) end-for
AND end
NOT(EMP.TITLE = "Elect. Eng."))
9. Explaln the distributed SDD-1 query optimization protocol. [MODEL QUESTION]
Let pl be ENAME = "), Doe”, p2 be TITLE = "Programmer" and p3 be TITLE = Answer:
"Elect.Eng.” SDD-1 Algorithm
Then the qualification can be written as pl V (-p2 A (p2 V p3) A “p3) and then be Step 1: In the execution strategy (call it ES), include all the local processing
transformed into p! Step 2: Reflect the effects of local processing on the database profile
DDMS-56 ; DDMS-57
