TR\ EERNA VN I
LRI
% when |
il h“\hubwwm 4) availability and reliubilty of distributed dats
e Ut b] worklond costand availabiy
\aewar: ) ¢ storage cost and avalability
& Reol d) none of these
ogmataiony T Vol W of o following conditions of Answer: 1)
3m""" ) Reconstruction S 16, In DDBMSs, #MWWMW"’“‘;& QuESTION
A Wi, 4) Local conceptual schema b) Global extemal schema
- ) Global conceptual schema d) Local mapping schema
p m schema depends on the . [MODEL QUESTION] Answer: (b)
¢) type of the local DBMS d) location Short Answer Type Questions
Answer: (¢) :
ocation . Discuss horizontal, vertical, mixed, and derived fragmentations with examples.
"'t"m"‘mmhmm [MODEL QUESTION) ' [MODEL QUESTION]
¢) Replication transparency b) Local mapping transparoncy Answer: _
Answer: (d) d) none of these Horizontal Fragmentation: Horizontal fragmentation consists of partitioning the tuples
of a global relation into subsets; this is clearly useful 'in dumbmd dauhu:,‘ M::d u:h
11. Split approach of vertical fragmentation subset can contain data that have common ge.ognpmal propertis It can be defined by
) progressing splitting u:; oone (MODEL QUESTION] expressing each fragment as a selection operation on the global relation
¢) both (a) & (b) d) mmﬂlﬂnc Example: let a global relation be
Answer: (c) SUPPLIER (SNUM, NAME, CITY)
12. To make non distributed system distri Then the horizontal fragmentation can be defined in the following way
4) 0O component M;;::wmmm TIO SUPPLIER = SLery . yypue- SUPPLIER
¢) DOC component d) (a) & (¢) SUPPLIER,= SLeyry ~gumgs SUPPLIER
Answer: (d)
Vertical Fragmentation;
13. The disjointness condition is not strictly followed In ~ (MODEL QUES The FVertical fragmentation of a global relation is the subdivision of its attributes into
4) horizontal fragmentation b) vertical fragmentation . groups; fragments are obtained by projecting the global relation over each group. This
¢) mixed fragmentation d) hybrid fragmentation can be useful in distributed databases where each group of attributes can contain data that
Answer: (b) have common geographical properties. The fragmentation is correct, if each attribute is
mapped into at least one atribute of the fragments; morcover, it must be possible to
14. Location independence represents that [MODEL QUESTION) reconstruct the original relation by joining the fragments together,
;: ::: n g::. : tf;omlﬁaxzo of m:a: . Example: Consider a global relation
0 n of the da MD (R ; -
¢) users are aware of the physical names of database objects EMP (EMPNUM, NAME, SAL, TAX, MGRNUM, DEPTNUM)
A“:)!m.) e e A vertical fragmentation of this relation can be defines as
' EMPy=PJ i vani, warwon e EMP
EMPyPJ iniwing sar, 1ax EMP
et DDMS-19
