case, transactions 1, 4, and 7 have the same availabili . Qﬁmmﬂmwmﬁ“wbblthl
mdhsmmactionII:MWMJY?wlg:m!mm‘wmu' _ : :
cxample must be careully interprted. The fuct that a tion 12. Obviously, the The first rule ensures that a data item is not read and written by two (ransactions
group means now that it can be run f all athe sites are do""m‘m:: can run in a given concurrently. The second rule ensures that two wrile operations from (WO (ransactions
groups. The high increase in availabiliy is obtained at m:“'sk‘ Ofb\ll_ldlngseplme cannot oceur concurrently on the same data item. The two rules ensure that one-copy
of catastrophic partitions. ceralizabilit is maintained.
:) Quorum-based protocol: ’ o :
worum is the mini Rember . ¢) Wound wait protocol:
m:ducl the business :jlrl: gz;beor,gmb, this f{ . df"b_m“" body necessary to O)nc of the problems of locking_ mechanisms is the 'p_otcnlial for deadlock. Deadlock
be there, although many bodies may have a lower p- ’: majority of the people expected to occurs when (o or more transactions are mutually waiting for each other's resources. To
igher quorum. ~* avoid such deadlocks, some dalabase management systems give priority to older
uorum-based voti . transactions. That is, if an older {ransaction requires access (0 data item that is locked
gmd o mv;;:d?; ::: 5 'd:pl'“ control method, as well as a commit by a younger transaction, the younger transaction is forced to release all of its data items,
ty in the presence of network partitioning. is activities are rolled back (based on the log), the older transaction is given access (0 the
: . data item, and the younger transaction is forced to start again. 1fa younger transaction is
gu:m voting in am ; - . repeatedly preempted, it will grow older in the process and qltimalcly become one of the
e sk Simmalomicity . “'““cmdi could be executing it operations at older transactions. This protocol, known as the wound-wait protocol (old transactions
Sy ’f:q Ies every stributed lmslc_uon ‘to be atomic, the wound young transactions, young transactions wait for old ones), assures that every
saction must have the same fate (commit or abor) at every site. In case of network ransaction will ultimately be allowed to complete its task.
P"c:“f‘:':& sites are partitioned and the partitions may not be able to communicate with
::m a° - This ‘iss“’lﬂ;:d qmmw technique comes in. The fundamental idea is f) Conservative timestamp ordering protocol:
B fransaction is executed it majority of sites vote to execulte i [tis a timestamp ordering scheme for every site (i.c, a transaction manager, TM) in the
very site in the system is assigned a vote Vi. Let us assume that the total number of system. There is scheduler process that keeps track of all the transaction requests
votes in the system is V, and the abort and commit quorums are Va and Vc, respectively. arriving at a certain data manager (DM). This scheduler also maintains two internal queue
Then the following rules must be obeyed in the implementation of the commit protocol: l data structures for each TM, namely a READ and a WRITE queue. These queues, as the
1. Va+Ve>V, where 0 Va, Ve v. ‘ name suggests, hold READ and WRITE requests for a TM and are ordered by using the
9. Before a transaction commits, it must obtain a commit quorum Vc. f {imestamp ordering scheme previously mentioned.
3. Before a transaction aborts, it must obtain an abort quorum Va. When a TM wants to perform a READ or a WRITE operation to a certain DM, it sends :
T_'hc first rule ensures that a transaction cannot be committed and aborted at the same request to the scheduler responsible for that DM. A request consists of a READ/WRITE
time. The next two rules indicate the votes that 2 transaction has to obtain before it can command, a variable-value pair to be read/written (value is NIL in case of a READ-op),
terminate one way or the other. and timestamp (TS). The scheduler is then responsible for cither allowing the request
execution or for buffering the request in case of a potential conflict (we will define
Quorum-based voting for replica control “potential" later, don't worry). The scheduler is also responsible for making sure that each
In replicated databases, a data object has copies present at several sites. To ensure request is processed by the algorithm when it comes in, and for testing if any of the
serializability, no two transactions should be allowed to read or write a data item | buffered requests can be executed.
concurrently. In case of replicated databases, a quorum-based replica control protocol can Whenever a read or write request is buffered or executed, buffered requests are tested (o
be used o ensure that no two copies of a data item are read or written by two transactions ‘ see if any of them can be executed, by running the algorithm for each one of them.
concurrently. The algorithm guarantees serialization simply by ordering every action, be it conflictant
In the quorum-based voting for replica, each copy of a replicated data item is assigned a ’ or not. That's why it's called conservative ordering algorithm, by the way. As an example,
vote, Each operation then has to obtain a read quorum (V) or a write quorum (Vw) to assume the following ordering of requests arriving to a DM-scheduler:
read or write a data item, respectively. If a given data item has a total of V votes, the Istto arrive, w/ TS=1 : REQ READ (TM_I, DM_1, x, 1);
quorums have to obey the following rules: | 2nd to arrive, w/ TS=2 : REQ_READ(TM 2, DM_I, x, 2);
LVr+Vw>V 3rd to arrive, w/ TS=3 : REQ_READ (TM_2, DM:I, Y, 3);
2. Vw> V2 dth o arrive, w/ TS=4 : REQ_WRITE(TM_1, DM_L, y, 4);
DDMS-64
DDMS-65
-
