- h
POPULAR PUBLICATIONS "’ 5/
:)Bv:":d lhcddlﬂmlncdo“ I:mmn contralizod and distibuted DBMS with respect to
\ redundancy, indexing, rellabllity and performance. [MODEL QUESTIO!
Answer: . | NI Writo down the 2-phase commitment protocol. What are different communication
The features which characterize the traditional database approach are centralized control, 1irucluf' for this protocol? What is log write-ahead protocol? [MODEL QUESTION)
data "‘fkl’fm_lcncc. reduction of redundancy, complex physical structures for efficient : qwer:
access, 'll_lcgflly- fecovery, coneurrency conirol, privacy, and security. A“n Part: .
* The possibiliy of providing centralzed contral oves the information resources of ':'hc {wo-phase comilt protocol provides an automatic recovery mechanism in case a
a Whole enterprise or organization was considered 05 one of the strongest stem or media failure occurs during execution of the transaction. The two-phase
motivations for introducing databases; they were developed as the evolution of symmil protocol ensures that all participating database servers receive and implement the
information systems in which each application had its own private fies. The - ¢ action (either to commit or to roll back a transaction), regardless of local or network
fundamental function of database administrator (DBA) was to guarantee the ;a{rum
safety of data; the data itself was recognized to be important investinent of the I?I ny database server is unable to commit it portion of the transaction, all database
enterprise which required a centralized responsibility, r:'crs participating in the transaction must be prevented from committing their work,
i distributed databases, e idea ofcentaized control is much less emphasized, ;cmh a two-phase commit protocol, the distributed transaction manager employs a
¢ In distributed databases, data independence has the same importance as in coordinator 10 manage the individual resource managers.
traditional databases; however, & new aspect is added (0 the usual notion of data
independence, namely, distribuion Iransparency, ‘The commit process proceeds as follows:
. Reductlon_oj redundancy In traditional databases, redundancy was reduced as o Phasel
far a5 possiblefor two ressons: i, nconssences among several copies of the o Each participating resource manager coordinates local operations and forces all
same logical data are automatically avoided by having only one copy, and log records out:
second, storage space is saved by eliminating redundancy. Reduction of o Ifsuccessful, respond "OK"
redundancy was obtained by data sharing, i.e,, by allowing several applications to o Ifunsuccessful, cither allow a time-out or respond "OOPS"
access the same files and records. In distributed databases, however, there are o Phase?
several reasons for considering data redundancy as a desirable feature: first, the o Ifall participants respond "OK":
locality of applications can be increased if the data is replicated at all sites where * Coordinator instructs participating resource managers to "COMMIT"
. applications need it, and second, the availability of the system can be increased, *  Participants complete operation writing the log record for the commit
because a site failure does not stop the execution of applications at other sites if o Otherwise:
the data is replicated. * Coordinator instructs participating resource managers to "ROLLBACK"
¢ Integrity, recovery, and concurrency control In databases the issues of integrity, * Participants complete their respective local undos
recovery, and concurrency control, although they refer to different problems, are
strongly interrelated. To a large extent, the solution of these problems consists of In-order for the scheme to work reliably, both the coordinator and the participating
providing transactions. resource managers independently must be able to guarantee proper completion, including
*  Privacy and security In traditional databases, the database administrator, having any necessary restart/redo operations. The following figure describes the basic protocol.
centralized control, can ensure that only authorized access to the data is
performed. Note, however, that the centralized database approach in itself,
without specialized control procedures, is more vulnerable to privacy and
security violations than the older approaches based on separate files.
In distributed databases, local administrators are faced essentially with the same problem
as database administrators in a traditional database, However, two peculiar aspects of
distributed databases are worth mentioning: first, in a distributed database with a very
high degree of site autonomy, the owners of local data feel more protected because they
can enforce their own protections instead of depending on a central database
administrator; second, security problems are intrinsic to distributed systems in general,
because communication networks can represent a weak poirit with respect to protection.
DDMS-74 DDMS-75
