t L AS PUBLIGATIONS
gmm% o Tuking advantage of non-local resources
s o CostSaving
4 o Overcoming memory constraints
1. Explein o Save time and money
: . ides a user-friend! mming perspective to memory
- Parallel Query Processing. NODEL ¢ + Global address space provides a user-friendly programming perspec
The steps for Parallel Query Processing ‘
N are: The Disadvantages of the Parallel systems are:
l Translation: Coaversion of the relational algebra expression ) + Primary disadvantage s the lack of scalability between memory and CPUs. i
d Qpn-_mﬁon: Reondering of join operations in the W':t it - » Programmer responsibility for synchronization constructs that ensure “correct
different joun algorithms to minimise the cast of the execution choase among access of global memory. .
3. Parallelisation: Transfoming the query tree to a physical ¢ : + It becomes increasingly difficult and expensive (o design and produce shared
lhtplanlrfthemgm& weoind kadeg nmorymachineswitheverimasingnumbasofmcssm
4 Execution: Running the concurrent transactions,
: R e e
. : PARALLELIZATION ‘ 1. a) Describe scale up ad speedup :l;tor? in 'p:glz dm‘bu:::l“ o
' Annotared 4 different of data joning techniques in databa
oy 1l 8 Qe ) E I - - gt it [MODEL QUESTION]
NI i | (Schauk) Answer: \ . _
: g i Following are the major factors which afffect the efficient parallel operation and can
H reduce both speedup and scaleup.
Startup costs : :
< Fig: Parallel query processing For every single operation which is to be done in parallel, there is an associated cost
: involved in Starting the process. That is, breaking a given big process into many @l
2. What are the difference between proc&smmumssomeumumofﬁmeormoumForexfmpk,.aqu_whlchma
e s Pt the data of table ned o partiton th table as well as nstructing various paralll
Answer: N processors to execute the query before any parallel operation begins.
(Features | ParallelSystems | Distributed Systems |
- Example: SELECT * FROM Emp ORDER BY Salary;
Tightly coupled system shared | Weakly coupled system i '
memo Distributed memory IhisquerysmtsdnmcordsofEmptableonSaluymibute.Letusmumelhallhuem
Global clock control No global clock control 1 million employees, so one million records. It will consume some time to execute ina
Order of Gbps | computer with minimal resources. If we would like to execute the query in parallel, we
Interconnection need to distribute (or redistribute) the data into several processors (in case of Shared
Performance Performance (cost & scalability) Nothing Architecture), also, we need to instruct all the processars (o execute the query.
Scientific computing Reliability/availability These two operations need some amount of time well before any parallel execution
Information/resource & sharing. happens.
3. Write down the advantages and disadvantages of parallel system. Interference
[MODEL QUESTION] Since processes executing in a parallel system often access shared resources, 2 slowdown
Answer: may result from the interference of each new process as it competes with existing
The advantages of the Parallel systems are: processes for commonly held resources, such as a system bus, or shared disks, or even
o Provide Concurrency (do multiple things at the same time) locks. Both speedup and scaleup are affected by this phenomenon.
DDMS-88 DDMS-89
