MMMMAE&EMAMWM
1. Centralized: violate no reliance on a central si
/ ESTI
2. Fully repliated: 1o of ocal autonomy % b) Wht s allocation? puissLares
3, Partioned: nonlcal oprationsar very Anser: . location
4. Combination of (1) and (3): m'v:y mm ceotral si Data allocation describes the process of deciding where 10 locate data. Data &
ona sile. iralegies are 4 follows: : R
The distributed database ' e ’ o With centralized data allocation, the entire dalabasc’ poeo s .
/ in addiion 10 data in :ﬂu,,mmwm“"“-mn el b e slcaon, e b is G o 0 € T
partitioning and repli in a centrlised DBMS. Because of data disiointed parts (fragments) and stored at two or more SIEs.
ng and replication, this extra information is needed. There ) AT e database fragments &r¢
approaches to implementing a distributed database catalog, are a number of » With replcated data allocation, copies of one or m
+ Centralised - Keep one master copy of the ! stored at several sites.
« Fully replicated - Keep one copy o the catalog .
o at each site nd explain it with proper example.
- Partiti : Wite the horizontal Algorithm a 0
v MM‘\:’ Partiion and replicae the catlog as usagepatensdemand ) [MODEL QUESTION]
““""“’f“m m horizontal fragmens are defined using seletions on_ global reatons; (e
. protocol PSS WPy conmimen celected in one and only one fragment. Thus, determining the primary fragmentation of &
Amm-' global relation requires determining 3 s¢t of disjoint and complete selection predlcau;
i h The property that we require for cach fragment is that the clements of them must
phase commitment protocol overcome limitation of 2-phase commitment protocol: referenced homogeneously by all the applications. ; :
A Two-phase commit protocol cannot dependably recover from a failure of both the The horizontal fragmentation function distributes a relation based on selection predicates.
coprdmntot and a cohort member during the Commit phase. If only the coordinator had The following example is used in subsequent discussions.
failed, and no cohort members had received a commit message, it could safely be inferred EMP
that no commit had happened. If, however, both the coordinator and a cohort member ﬁmmm-’ﬂﬂ!
failed, it is possible that the failed cohort member was the first to be notified, and had Bl |J.Doc | Elec.Eng
actually done the commit. Even if a new coordinator is selected, it cannot confidently E2 | M. Smith | Syst Anal.
proceed with the operation until it has received an agreement from all cohort members ... : B3 |AlLe Mech. Eng.
and hence must block until all cohort members respond. E4 | ). Miller Pm&';’n“:“
The Three-phase commit protocol eliminates this problem by introducing the Prepared to Eg E' ‘(:I:sey ZIY:; ey
commit state. If the coordinator fails before sending preCommit messages, the cohort will 57 R Da:is Mech Engg'
unanimously agree that the operation was aborted. The coordinator will not send out 2 S e Anal.
g::r:l?n'?:n 'lll'h;:&:lsi:ngi:latu:ﬂlh‘clIpfo‘s):‘i%riilitl;edr?at:?nymc:;oﬁcnlf:;bl:rmacl:]:alyl;rzo;rpel[::idd:z Rel.ation EMP(ENO, ENAME, TITLE) of the ::ve fLaltl)le can be split into three
ransaction before all cohort members were aware of the decision to do so (an ambiguity horizontal fragments EMPE;rP" and EMP,, defined as follovs:
that necessitated indefinie blocking in the Two-phase commit protocol). EMP, = Gawcer | )
how network paritioning is handied in replicated databases EMP, =015 goves (M)
1. lownol'onnlanenroca )
s : y [MODEL QUESTION] EMP, = 00,55 (EMP)
Answer: The localization program for an horizontally fragmented relation is the union of the
Network partitions separate replica managers into two or more subgroups, in such a way fragments. In our example we have
that the members of a subgroup can communicate with one another but members of EMP = EMP, UEMP, UEMP,
different subgroups cannot communicate, There are (o approaches ior this - 1) Thus the localized form of any query specified on EMP is obtained by replacing it by
Optimistic approaches use available copies with validation and 2) Pessimistic approaches EMP, UEMP, UEMP,.
which use Quorum consensus.
DDMS-84 DDMS-85
.
