POPULAR PUBLICATIONS DISTRIBUTEDD. 4§
26, Looal autonomy means ; ization for the query based on the fragy

) looal query will be processed locally R AT The Query Processing d":s dulx.! m::/::rl;;gy that qinc?momm the

b) local data will be acoesses by local site only scheme and fenerates the exce

0) local DDA Is solo authorlty of local date ' operations involved in processing the query.

) oach sito In a DIMS In Its own rlght ,
Anwer! (1) 2 Part;
26, Datal filo Inol (haracteristics of Query Processors:

« Database profile Inoludes e o8 L

) onrdinality h) iz o) distinot mm[MOPd;..Q"Ujm?:J e l’m.‘ (Ilfnpm language can be relational algebra or calculus; output language is relational

Animeri d) (o algebra (annotated with communication primitives). The query processor must
efficiently map input language to output language.

« What are the objectives of Distributed Quo trategies, the best one can be selected through €xha ted
Aniwort o roomisg? 65 AT ’n“p:;;l;g heilrinic (minimize size of intermediate relations). For distributors
Objectives of Distributed Query Processing databases semi-joins can be applicd to reduce data transfer.

I The main objectives of query processing in u distributed environment is to form a Statistics
high Tovel query on  disteibuted database, which is seen as o single database by o Fragment cardinality and size .
the users, fnto an efficient execution strategy expressed in a low lovel language in o Size and number of distinct values for each attribute. Detailed histograms of
local databases, attribute values for better selectivity estimation.
2 An important point of query processing is query optimization, Because many Declsion Sites
oxecution stratogles are correct transformations of the same high level query the o Onesite or several sites participate in selection of strategy.
one that optimizes (minimizes) resource consumption should be retained. Exploltation of network topology
3. The good mensure of resource consumption are; »  Wide area network communication cost.
1) The total cost that will be fneurred in processing the query. Itis the dome of all o Local area network parallel execution
tmes ncurred in processing the operations of the query at various sites and Exploitation of replicated fragments
Intrinsie communication, 1 + Larger number of possible strategies. -
i) The resource time of the query, This is the time clapsed for executing the o Use of Semi joins.
¢|‘uory.rslncc operations can be executed in parallel at different sited, the response o Rediice slae of dota tranifer:
lime of a query may be significantly less than its cost. i
A I a distributed system, the (ofal cost (o be minimized includes CPU, N0, and o Iceuate QL RARCAN G DEN MRS
communication costs. This cost can be minimized by reducing the number of N0 3. What Is locking? What are the shared and exclusive locks? Briefly discuss
operation through fast access methods (o the data and efficient use of main Timestamp protocol in relation to distributed database system?
memory. The communication cost is the time needed for exchanging the data [MODEL QUESTION]
between sited participating in the execution of the query, Answer:
Any Database management system whether it is distributed or centralized, utilizes locks
2. What do you meant by Query Processing? Write down the characteristics of o provide concurrency control. Common uses of locks are to ensure that only one user
query Processors. [MODEL QUESTION] can modify a record at a time and that data cannot be read while it is being modified.
Answer: Locking mechanisms can be enforced at the row, table or page level.
1" Part: There are two mechanisms for locking data in a database: pessimistic locking, and
‘ A Query Processor is a module in the Distributed Database System that performs the optimistic locking,
ks to process, to optimize and to generate execution strategy for a high-level query.
DDMS-34 DDMS-35
