i
POPULAR PUBLICATIONS DISTRIBUTED DATAB )
8. Write shorts notes on the following; [MODEL QUESTIO ; nted by replicating the same information on several disks with independee,

;} m:m ™ i ;zﬂ:em:lwa aﬁ:fsing the so-called careful replacement strategy: at every updae

; ion, first one copy of the information is updated, then the correctness of the

¢) Wait-Die and Wound-Wait algorithm operation, P is updated

Answer: update is verified, and finally the second copy is updated. f filure:

:))n Network partitioning: Having introduced stable storage, we can introduce a new type of failure: -

e of the most difficult failures in a distributeq system is network partitioning (whe ilures with loss of stable storage: In these failures, some information ; in
set of computers are networked together byt they are isolated m molhger( s'e'("oaf 4 ft::,ll:”s:omge is los{because of several, simultaneous failures of the thfrd type. ‘
o hal are inerconnected). When network partitioning happens, there is 3 danger Although we can make the probabiliy of failures of stable storage arbitrarily small
;hﬁal WW in each pmitiop unilaterally decide to commit or abort the transaction, [f by using more replication and careful replacement strategies, it is impossible to

¢ o partitions do not dec!de on the same action (either both committing or both reduce this probability to zero.
aborting the transaction), the ntegity of the database willbe lost. Therfor, e gig,
:mmmr:a Qu0mm~based commit protocol that deals with network partitioning, ¢) Wait-Die and Wound-Wait algorithm: ' ;
etwork partitioning can completely destroy mutual consistency in the worst case, and Wait/Die and Wound/Wait are deadlock avoidance algorithms which use a symmetry-
this fact has led 10 a cerain amount of restrctiveness, vagueness, and even nervousness breaking technique. In both these algorithms there exists an older process (0) and a
in plstdlsumon.s, of how it may be handled, In some environments it is desirable or ounger process (Y). Process age can be determined by a timestamp at process creation
flecessary to pemmit users to continue modifying resources such as files when the network ﬂme_ Smaller timestamps are older processes, while larger timestamps represent younger
'S partitioned. A “‘_“"0*' operating system would be 3 good example. In such processes.
environments mutual inconsistency becomes a fact of lfe which must be dealt with. Once The Wait-Die algorithm:
e 18 deected, some reconcilaton steps are needed. In thog cases where the «  Allow wait only if waiting process is older.
semantics of the operations involved are straightforward, automatic reconciliation may be Since timestamps increase in any chain of waiting processes, cvcles are impossible.
possible. m the younger process restarts and requests the resource again, it may be killed once
b) Site Failure: sl - two algorithms.
From the viewpoint of local recovery, the most important characteristic of failures is the e i
amount mfommjon which is lost because of the failure, Therefore, in the classification of The Wound-Wait algorithm:
failures We consider essentially the memory component. From this viewpoint failures can =~ ¢ Otherwise allow wait only if waiting process is younger.
be ClﬂSSl.ﬁed as fgllows: Here timestamps decrease in any chain of waiting process, so cycles are again
L Fnlure.s without loss of information: In these failures, all the information impossible. It is wiser to give older processes priority. When the younger process re-
 stored in memory is available for the recovery. These failures include, for requests resource, it has to wait for older process to finish. This is the better of the two
example, the abort of transactions because an_eror condition is discovered algorithms.
like an arithmetic overflow or a division by zero,
2. Failures with loss of volatile storage: In these failures, the content of main
memory is lost; however, all the information which is recorded on disks is not
| affected by the failure, Typical failures of this kind are system crashes,
3. Failures with loss of nonvolatile storage: In these failures, called media failures,
also the content of disk storage is lost. Typical failures of this kind are head crashes.
Thembabilityoffailmuofthetlﬁrdtypeis less than that of the other two types.
- Moreover, it is possible to make the probability of the failures of the third type
arbitrarily small by replicating the information on several disks having independent
failure modes. Two disks have independent failure modes if the probability of
Mdﬂndosnotdependonmeopnﬁomlsmtusoﬂheotherone.
idea is the basis for the development of stable storage. Stable storage is the
resilient storage medium available in the system. Stable storage is typically
DDMS-86 DDMS-87
